Deputy Chairman of the Electoral Commission, Dr. Eric Bossman Asare has assured ghanaians that it will deliver very fair elections at all levels.
Dr. Bossman Asare in an interview gave assurance that transparent elections would be conducted in the country to ensure that those that are voted for are those who get the lead.
His assurance comes days after President Akuffo Addo swore in the Chairperson, Jean Adukwei Mensa and her two deputies and a corporate legal practitioner, Adwoa Asuama Abrefa who is a member of the Commission.
Dr. Bossman Asare said election is not about theory but practical.
He said elections will be conducted in such a way that what people will choose will at the end of the day become those who will lead the country at the district, parliamentary and Presidential levels.
Nana Asante Bediatuo, the Secretary to the President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, has flatly denied claims by an unnamed woman in an audio that has gone viral, that he held a meeting with her and others in a bid to sell the Art Centre, a public property.
According to him, no such meeting has taken place between him and anyone on the subject matter.
Mr. Asante Bediatuo has therefore asked the public to disregard the said allegation and treat it with “the contempt it deserves.”
He said he’s also not aware of any plans to sell the Art Centre, and did not have the authority to lead such an action if it was true.
An unknown woman in an audio circulating on social media claims to have picked some information that the President had plans to sell the Art Centre.
She is also heard saying she proceeded to meet with Mr. Asante Bediatuo in the company of some chiefs in a bid to have the plans changed, but Mr. Bediatuo disrespected them.
The woman, whose narrarion in the 2 minutes 5 seconds audio did not seem coherent, erroneously referred to Asante Bediatuo as the President’s spokesman.
She also claimed that Mr. Bediatuo had told them that the Art Centre was going for 500 million, but did not specify whether the said amount was in cedis or dollars.
Mr. Bediatuo has rejected outrightly all the claims by the unidentified woman.
According to him, those allegations are “outright and blatant lies.”
“I wish to put on record that I have never met this unnamed, unidentified woman or the elders and the chiefs she claims she brought to meet with me.
It is interesting to note that she does not put out any details of the alleged meeting.”
“She does not state the date of the meeting, the place where the meeting took place, and the names of the elders and chiefs who accompanied her to the alleged meeting.
That is because the so-called meeting never took place, or at least, not with me. 
As is public knowledge, I am the Secretary to the President and not the President’s spokesperson.”
Mr. Asante Bediatuo further insisted the said audio was created to cause disaffection for him as a senior government official.
“Ordinarily, I will not dignify such baseless allegations with a response to give it oxygen in the media space. 
However, such false allegations in the manner presented can be believed by some people.”
“I, therefore, consider it necessary to put out this statement because the allegations made in the audio recording have no iota of truth, are pure fabrications, and are malicious, with the sole aim of courting public disaffection for me as a senior official of this government.”
The Minerals Commission has begun investigations into the mining accident that occurred on Wednesday, May 26, 2021, at Denkyira Breman/Brofoyedu in the Upper Denkyira West District of the Central Region.
Dozens of miners are reported trapped in the illegal mining pit.
At least three of the people pulled out of the wreckage have been confirmed dead, including a victim believed to be 10 years old.
Unconfirmed reports suggest that many of the victims are not residents of the community as none of the residents could identify any of the deceased.
The Minerals Commission in a statement indicated that it visited the site around 11:00 a.m on the day of the incident, and that its Inspectorate Division has commenced full investigations into it.
According to the Commission, preliminary investigations indicate that the small-scale miners were working illegally at the site which falls within the prospecting license of Adio-Mabas Ghana Limited.
This incident comes at a time when government has renewed the fight against all forms of illegal small-scale mining in the country.
A similar incident occurred in October 2020 where five persons were reported dead after they were trapped in a mining pit in the same district.
15 others who were also trapped in the cave sustained varied injuries after the incident.
Also, in November 2020, an illegal small-scale mining pit in the outskirts of Ayanfuri collapsed and trapped eight persons between the ages of 24 and 35 years.
A life was lost on May 17, 2021 after an underground mining pit which is part of the concession of Anglogold Ashanti Obuasi Mine, caved in and trapped some workers.
A former Director-General of the Ghana Health Service, Professor Agyemang Badu Akosa, has hit hard at members of the Komfo Anokye Chapter of the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GAMLS) who are protesting the posting of the two hematologists to the Laboratory Service Department of the hospital.
Members of the Chapter have declared an indefinite strike starting Thursday, 27th May, 2021, over the move, after they started with a one-week sit-down strike.
They have vowed to call off the strike only if the two are withdrawn from the hospital’s laboratory unit.
But Prof. Akosa on Citi TV’s Point of View said the strike is unfounded, given that hematologists are equally qualified to work in laboratories.
“The problem we have in this country sadly is that our medical laboratory scientists do not appreciate their limitation. 
Two hematologists- where should they go and practice? Hematologists are doctors who have trained in blood diseases. 
So far as the laboratory space has different professionals, the headship can be based on competence, so we cannot sit here and say that the laboratory should be for laboratory scientists alone.
“People are being transferred to the laboratory space and you [laboratory scientists] are driving them away and because of that, there is a national strike. 
Why are we just splitting heads because medical laboratory scientists believe the laboratory space is for them. 
It is not for them,” Mr. Akosa insisted.
The pathologist believes it is problematic for the Allied Health Professional Council to dictate or regulate the functions of physicians and where they should operate from as it was seeking to do with the two hematologists.
“The Allied Health Professional Council regulates Allied Health Professionals, and the list is clearly stated in the schedule of Act 857 and it lists those who are allied health professionals – you must be a lab technician, you must be a medical laboratory technologist or a medical laboratory scientist.
These are allied health professionals.
As a medical doctor, I am not an allied health professional so under no circumstance can that regulatory agency regulate my practice. 
This is the mistake that unfortunately, the allied health professionals are making.”
The flagbearer of the National Democratic Congress (NDC) in the 2020 polls, Mr. John Dramani Mahama has assured Ghanaians that he won’t compromise the nation’s stability.
Mr. Mahama says even though he is disappointed by the verdict of the apex court on the Election Petition, he is “legally bound” to accept it.
He assured that neither himself nor the NDC will do anything against the collective interest of the nation.
According to him, in all his public service, he has always put the interest of Ghana first in every decision he has taken.
“We will be law-abiding and do nothing to compromise the stability of the country.
We will however continue to be the voice of the voiceless and will not be distracted demanding justice and fairness at all times.”
“Neither will we surrender nor fail to champion the rights of all our people to enjoy the fundamental freedoms guaranteed under our constitution.”
Mr. Mahama urged his supporters not to give up on their dreams for the party to come to power.
“The NDC will always remain the party of the people. 
The party was established to empower the people of Ghana to be architects of our own destiny. 
We blazed the trail for participatory democracy. 
And I am confident that out of the ashes of this legal setback, we will mobilize and rekindle the struggle for a better democratic Ghana.”
Mr. Mahama also took a swipe at the Supreme Court saying it has set a “dangerous precedence” by not allowing the Chairperson of the Electoral Commission to testify during the trial.
He thus described it as an “embarrassing stain” on the country’s judicial and electoral systems as well as a major source of worry to well-meaning Ghanaians.
“This is the clear stab in the heart of accountability to the sovereignty of the people of Ghana. 
Whatever the reasons for not allowing Mrs. Mensa to testify or answer questions, it leaves an embarrassing stain not only on our justice delivery system but also our nation’s electoral system”, a disturbed Mahama lamented.
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, on Wednesday, 26th May, 2021, cut the sod for the first phase of construction works to begin on the Law Village of the Ghana Law School.
The ceremony took place at the Academic Enclave near the University of Ghana Business School.
With the Ghana School of Law being the nation’s sole institution responsible for professional legal education, and for training eligible persons as lawyers and integrating them into the legal system, President Akufo-Addo expressed his delight about the project taking place under his Presidency. 
“I have been reliably informed that 1,000 students were admitted during the 2020/2021 academic year, a development which led to the Acting Director and Management of the School taking a cue from the double-track system initiated in our Senior High Schools, to introduce a triple-track system,” he said.
The President continued, “with the 2021/2022 academic year fast approaching, the school is, again, faced with limited and overstretched facilities, hence the added importance of this project”.
The entire Law Village Project, according to the President, will cost about US$55 million, with Phase One of the project complementing the facilities of the Accra Main Campus located at Makola, at a cost of US$4 million). “Once completed, the Law Village will boast of an additional seating capacity of one thousand five hundred (1,500) seats, a number of lecture halls, a well-resourced library, residential facilities, offices, amongst others,” he added.
The President was expectant that the completion of the Law Village will expand access to legal education, without compromising on its quality, and, ultimately, assist in the administration of justice throughout the country.
“As many more lawyers are trained, it is my hope that, indeed, many more of them will join the public sector to enhance the quality of legal service delivery in the sector. I assure all of you that this project is the beginning of greater things to come for the Ghana School of Law. Government’s commitment to leaving a lasting legacy in professional legal education in Ghana is absolute,” he added.
The Speaker of Parliament, Alban S.K Bagbin, has assured the Ghanaian business community that Parliament remains committed to extensively engaging them on proposed amendments to laws that stifle the growth of local businesses.
He said Parliament will directly engage them on the drafting of amendments to laws that affect their operations in order to ensure that their concerns are fully addressed.
The Speaker gave the assurance at a meeting with the Private Enterprises Federation (PEF) in Parliament on Tuesday.
He was addressing concerns raised by the Federation on some compelling issues affecting the growth of the private sector, including laws relating to taxes.
“One of the things I want to do is to engage civil society to present drafts on the proposed amendments that will better serve the business community.
“I will get the relevant committees to look at the specific laws in question and work with you to address the concerns,” he said.
The President of PEF, Nana Osei Bonsu, who led the delegation, said it was time for the legislature to create a periodic dialogue platform where issues affecting the private sector could be discussed with members of the House.
He said issues affecting the private sector, including shortcomings in the tax collection system and general misunderstanding of the tax laws in the business community, must be addressed by Parliament.
The National Democratic Congress (NDC) Member of Parliament (MP) for Nkwanta-North in the Oti Region, Mr. John Oti Bless, has cut the sod for the construction of a six-unit classroom block, a staff common room and a library for the Tinjase D/A Junior High School (JHS).
The MP cut the sod last Saturday, May 23, for work to begin on the GH¢800,000 projects.
The projects are being funded through the MP’s share of the District Assemblies Common Fund (DACF).
Work is expected to be completed in 10 months.
Improve learning
Mr. Bless told the Daily Graphic in an interview that the projects were meant to facilitate teaching and learning in the school.
“When completed, these facilities will help to decongest the high number of pupils in the classrooms, promote reading culture among pupils and also provide comfort for teachers who sit under trees to mark scripts,” he said.
The MP urged chiefs and opinion leaders in the area to support initiatives that would facilitate teaching and learning in schools.
He said when all stakeholders contribute their quota to improve teaching and learning environment in schools, pupils would perform better.
Appreciation
The Chief of Tinjase, Ubor Mamunin II, lauded Mr. Bless for initiating the school projects.
Additionally, he expressed appreciation to the MP for understanding a number of infrastructure projects in the town.
The chief enumerated a number of infrastructure projects the MP carried out in the area, including rural electrification, mechanized boreholes, CHPS compounds, school buildings, and a communication tower.
He said such projects have given Tinjase town and surrounding communities a facelift.

Following the drastic surge of Covid-19 cases in India this month, some Ghanaians, have in a gesture of brotherliness, provided a donation of 150 medical grade oxygen concentrators to needy hospitals in that country.
The donation will be shared among 30 health facilities in rural areas across 14 different states/regions.
Additionally, seven units of 10-litre-oxygen concentrators are being presented by the Government of Ghana to India’s Ministry of External Affairs, through the Ghana High Commission in New Delhi. 
This gesture makes Ghana the first African country to have undertaken such an initiative.
An oxygen concentrator is a device that concentrates the oxygen from a gas supply by selectively removing nitrogen to supply an oxygen-enriched gas stream.
Medical oxygen becomes essential for treatment of severe COVID-19 patients.
Mr. Amar Deep S. Hari, the Chief Executive Officer of IPMC, who commissioned the items, on a virtual platform for distribution from India’s famous mosque, Dargah Nizamuddin in New Delhi, India, expressed his gratitude to Ghanaians for this assistance.
“This gesture is mainly to show that Ghanaians from Africa are thinking of our Indian brothers and sisters and keeping their well being in our prayers,” he said.
Prior to the second wave of COVID-19, Ghana had become one of the first recipients of the Indian manufactured COVID-19 vaccines under WHO’s Covax program.
Having benefitted from such a facility, the present initiative serves as a gesture of gratitude from Ghanaians towards India.
Members of the Indian Community in Ghana have lauded the prompt offer of help, which came from Ghanaians of diverse backgrounds.
“Whether teachers, doctors, students, drivers, businessmen and women or government employees – each of them contributed to the best of their abilities,” one of them told the Ghana News Agency.
“It shows the deep roots of friendship that exists between the two communities since independence,” he said.
Some expatriates of other countries in Ghana also participated in the noble cause.
President Nana Akufo-Addo has already pledged the services of Ghanaian doctors and nurses to India should they be needed at any time.
Dr. Samuel Thomas, an India physician, from a community hospital of Tamil Nadu State, expressed his gratitude to Ghanaians for the timely donation, which according to him, would go a long way in treating critically ill patients.
Dr. Nikhil Sharma from the District hospital Himachal Pradesh, stated: “Some angels from Africa are assisting to save lives in far off India and we will ever remain grateful to them for this gesture.”
His hospital has benefitted from 10 units of the Oxygen concentrators.
Mr. Frank Adu Jnr, a former Managing Director of CalBank Limited, told the GNA that Ghanaians were deeply touched by the plight of their siblings, hence their decision to support them with oxygen concentrators.
He said the COVID-19 catastrophe knew no boundaries, and urged Ghanaians to continue to abide by the safety protocols to prevent another wave of the disease in the country.
Meanwhile, a CNN report indicates that India reported 196,427 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, May 25, the lowest single-day rise in cases since April 14, 2021.
This marks a decline from the first week of May when the country was reporting more than 300,000 cases daily. 
It has also reported 3,511 fatalities, on Tuesday, the lowest single-day death toll since May 4,2021.
On Monday, India became the third country to top 300,000 deaths from the virus, after Brazil and the United States. 
India has reported a total of 26,948,874 Covid-18 cases, including 307,231 deaths. 
There are 2,586,782 confirmed active cases in the country, according to the health ministry
A man believed to be in his 30s has shot himself dead after he shot his girlfriend, Melody Owusu, who he allegedly caught with another man.
The incident happened at Alavanyo Wududi in the Hohoe Municipality of the Volta Region in the early hours of Wednesday, May 26, 2021.
Residents say, Sampson Ataafi suspected the lady of cheating, and trailed her new boyfriend at about 1:00 am on Tuesday, May 25.
Witnesses say, Sampson Ataafi, upon realizing that his girlfriend was in the new boyfriend’s room, opened fire on the lady through a trap door. 
After firing the gun, with the aim of killing the lady, Sampson shot himself and died in the process, thinking the lady had been killed.
Melody Owusu was rushed to Margret Marquart Catholic Hospital in Kpando for medical attention.
Kofi George, a resident who narrated the incident to Citi News said: 
“I was told, the gentleman traced the girlfriend to the new boyfriend’s room. 
So he shot the girl through the trap door, but fortunately, the girl survived, but the bullet hit her on the left breast. 
The man thought the lady was dead, so he then reloaded the gun and shot himself, dying instantly.” 
This is happening few months after a 53-year-old man was shot and killed in the same community during a disagreement over palm wine.
Similar stories have also been reported in the early part of 2021.
In March, residents of Ho were also thrown into a state of shock after a lady believed to be in her mid-twenties was found dead in a hotel room.
Reports indicated that Jay Dordorye, [26 years] the boyfriend of the deceased, reportedly inflicted knife wounds on Harriet Kafui Ahiati (deceased) and attempted to commit suicide.
26-year-old Jay Dordoye is said to have slit his girlfriend’s throat and tried hanging himself after the incident. After failing in hanging himself, he resorted to stabbing himself multiple times.
Later in April, one Prince Charles Dedjoe, a businessman, suspected of killing his wife was also arrested by the police.
The deceased’s father reported to police that a day before his daughter’s demise, she complained to him that she was severely assaulted by her husband, and that had led to the death of her daughter.
The Minority Leader, Haruna Iddrisu, has cautioned Deputy Minister nominees to desist from holding themselves as if they have been approved to function.
According to him, the practice is illegal and unwarranted.
The Appointments Committee of Parliament is set to commence vetting of the nominees on June 2, 2021, but even before the process starts, the Minority Leader insists some nominees are already engaging in activities pre-empting the work of the committee.
Mr. Haruna Iddrisu spoke on the floor of Parliament following the resumption of its second meeting of the first session of the 8th Parliament of the Fourth Republic.
He, therefore, charged the nominees to respect the provisions of the Constitution regarding their nomination and subsequent approval or rejection by the House.
“There are many of them who are in a hurry to assume office even while Parliament has not even considered their nomination. 
May I, Mr. Speaker, serve a warning that in accordance with the ruling J.H. Mensah vs Attorney General, they will be in a hurry at their own peril because they must respect the provisions of the Constitution.”
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo released his list of deputy ministers on April 21, 2021
In all, there are 39 deputy ministers appointed under 24 portfolios and one Minister of State.
However, the Appointments Committee of Parliament is yet to vet the President’s nominees.
The scheduled public hearing from  Wednesday, June 2, which would end on Tuesday, June 15, will begin at 10:00 am each day.
The Appointments Committee has, consequently, invited Memoranda on the nominees from the public for consideration.
They are to reach the Clerk of the Committee not later than Monday, 24th May, through the address: The Clerk, Appointments Committee, Parliament House, Accra, attentioned to Mrs. Rosemary Sarkodie.
The Domestic Violence and Victim Support Unit (DOVVSU) of the Kasoa Divisional Police Command, has arrested a 52-year-old man for allegedly defiling his 10-year-old step-daughter at Kakraba in the Central Region.
According to the police, the suspect, Ebenezer Atobi Asante, started dating the victim’s mother some three years ago when her father died under mysterious circumstances.
In an interview with Adom News, Kasoa DOVVSU Commander, ASP Dories Larye Aggrey said, the mother of the victim asked her daughter to live with the suspect when their friendship became intimate.
ASP Larye said the suspect was sharing the same double-bed with the victim and that is how the man got the opportunity to take advantage of the young girl.
She added that he defiled her several times. 
ASP Larye said in view of the trauma the 10-year-old has endured over the period, a Psychologist has been engaged to counsel her.
Meanwhile, the suspect, Ebenezer has been arraigned before court for prosecution.
Vice President Dr. Bawumia gave an insight into the Akufo-Addo government’s approach to national development when he addressed the chiefs and people of the Essikado Traditional Area in the Western region at the climax of this year’s Kuntum Festival on Saturday 4th August, 2018.
“We have not really benefited from the extraction of our natural resources, and it is for this reason that we need especially in the area of our minerals, to bring a new paradigm, a new thinking into how as a country we can benefit more from our mineral resources,” the Vice President noted.
“There are many mines that are operating and for years, they tell us they have not made any profit so they cannot pay any dividend to government. 
But they keep mining and mining. 
How can you as a business continue to be in existence for so long and claim you are not making profit and so you cannot pay. 
There are some mines that are paying, but many are not paying sufficiently, relative to how much they are taking out of our country.”
Vice President Bawumia indicated that a new fiscal regime similar to the one prevailing in the oil sector would soon be introduced in the mining sector.
“We have a regime that we are implementing for the oil sector, and we want to implement the same regime for the mining sector.
So when you take your gold out of the soil, if you take a 1000 tonnes, you will have to pay us our share out of that. 
We will not wait for you to go and say you have not made any profit out of the 1000 so you will not pay us anything. 
You will have to pay us something commensurate to what you have taken out.”
The Vice President assured the investor community that while Government welcomes foreign direct investment, such investment would have to be a partnership that was beneficial to all parties.
“We want foreign investment, there is no doubt about that. 
Our lawyers will say we have given them an invitation to treat. 
But that invitation to treat must not be an invitation to cheat. 
We want partnerships, and that is why we want a new regime in the mining sector, so that everyone will pay their share.”
This new thinking, the Vice President emphasised, was the guiding principle behind the decision to leverage a fraction of Ghana’s vast bauxite deposits to build an integrated bauxite and aluminium industry.
“We have decided that we are not going to allow what has happened to gold and manganese to happen with bauxite. 
Parliament just passed the Ghana Integrated Bauxite Authority Bill. We are forming this corporation, and will be forming partnerships with anybody who comes, a joint venture, to build an integrated bauxite and aluminium industry.
“We don’t want the raw bauxite being taken out of Ghana anymore. 
We will build a refinery here to refine the bauxite to alumina, take it to VALCO, and get aluminium and you will see the massive increase in value. 
This is going to be transformational,” the Vice President stated.
Vice President Bawumia commended the Omanhene of Essikado Traditional Area, Nana Kwabena Nketsiah V for his “continuous drive and contribution towards a better Ghanaian society for all”.
“Nana is indeed a true chip off the old block” Dr Bawumia declared, and called for the sustenance of the peace and unity enjoyed by the people of Essikado and the nation as a whole.
The South Tongu District Director of Agriculture, Ernest Quansah, has called on government to urgently ban the reckless acquisition of lands along river banks by private investors.
He said this has become necessary to improve access to fresh water bodies for irrigated farming and other agricultural purposes.
Mr Quansah made the call during his turn at the Assembly’s Town Hall Meeting at Sogakope.
Chelsea midfielder Willian has committed his future to the club, saying he has always been "very happy" at Stamford Bridge.
The 29-year-old has caught the attention of several of Europe's largest clubs this summer, including Barcelona and Manchester United.
The Spanish giants are understood to have had three bids for Willian turned down by Chelsea, while he was also believed to be high up Jose Mourinho's list of targets in this window.
The interest in Willian came after his relationship with previous Chelsea head coach Antonio Conte broke down.
However, he says he has spoken to Conte's replacement, Maurizio Sarri, and reassured him he wants to be part of his plans this season.
Speaking after Chelsea's 2-0 defeat to Manchester City in the Community Shield, Willian said: "I've always made it very clear that I've always been very happy playing for Chelsea. 
I never said that I want to leave the club.
"This is a new era, with a new manager and I've had a very good conversation with him, so I hope we can enjoy a lot of victories."
Chelsea were unimpressive in defeat at Wembley on Sunday, but Willian says the team will need time to adapt to Sarri's new way or working.
"Without doubt, we all like this style of play, all the players," he said. 
"We have to do all we can to keep improving.
"Of course, the beginning is always a little more difficult to adapt to a new style of play, which changes everything, but we have everything we need to improve, to continue working and start the season well."
President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has allayed fears that, the double in track system will destroy the education system as being speculated by a cross section of the Public.
Speaking at this year's Asafotufiami of the people of Ada, president Akufo-Addo said, the new system will rather reduce class size, increase teaching hours and number of holidays among others.
According to President Akufo-Addo, the double track system will not be applicable in all Senior High Schools but in schools facing infrastructure challenges due to a large number of students admitted under the free SHS programme.
President Akufo-Addo in September last year launched the Free Senior High school, (SHS), policy which provided 90 thousand more students gain access to Senior High school.
This year, it is estimated that an additional 180 thousand more children will be admitted into SHS.
Despite existing infrastructural deficit, government has made it a point to allow all qualified students to made it to Senior High school.
The government has therefore introduced the double intake system to accommodate the overflow.
President Akufo-Addo acknowledged that the implementation of any new policy is likely to face challenges.
But government will revolve these challenges and will not back down on the policy. 
He called for support from the Public as the new policy is rolled out.
The new programme creates a calendar of two semesters in a year for the SHS 1 class, containing 81 days per each semester and 41 days of vacation for a sandwich class.
Over 8,000 teachers are being recruited to handle the sandwich classes. 
Under the new system, teaching hours are increased from six hours per day to eight hours per day.
Ghana’s out of pocket expenditure per capita decreased from 38 Dollars in 2010 to 25 Dollars in 2015. 
That's according to the NHIS's Upper West Regional Director, Abass Suleymana.
Financial sustainability, identification of the poor and vulnerable, delaysin reimbursing service providers due to huge volumes and values of claims, compromised quality of care, illegal charges to insured members as well as delays in the submission of claims have been identified as some of the challenges of the National Health Insurance Scheme.
Mr. Suleymana outlined some efficiency measures being rolled out to up thegame in service delivery.
To this end, the scheme will ensure financial sustainability of the scheme through innovative efficiency measures which include: Proposed additional funding sources; digitization of membership registrations and renewals; rolling out electronic-claim nationwide; strengthening quality assurance and financial auditing for improved accountability to the public as well as the review of the current law to introduce measures that allows stiffer sanctions to reduce fraud and other malfeasance to serve asa deterrent to criminal minds.
In the Upper West Region, the Wa Municipality has the highest coverage of 71 % in terms of active members as at June 2018 whilst Wa East District has the lowest of 32%.
Financial analysts on GBC's Current Affairs Programme ‘Talking point’ have urged the Central Bank to put in place strict directives and measures to prevent recurrence of liquidation in the financial sector.
The analysts are of the view that such measures when applied should be followed to the letter to ensure compliance.
The panelists who commended the Central Banks move of merging five insolvent Banks said it is an innovative and efficient intervention.
The Bank of Ghana on Wednesday announced it has taken over Beige, Sovereign, Royal, Unibank and Construction banks and merged them into the Consolidated Bank Ghana Limited.
The closed banks were said to be facing liquidity challenges. 
Earlier this year, UT Bank and Capital Bank also faced the same liquidation problem.
Commenting, the MD of Stanbic Bank and President of the Ghana Bankers Association, Alhassan Andani said because the financial sector acts as a nerve of the economy, it is important that it is well managed.
Other areas of Ghana's economy such as manufacturing according to him must also be given the needed attention adding that auditors have a big role to play in the financial sector.
A Banking Consultant, Nana Otuo Acheampong said it is about time, premium was put on public financial literacy education, to guard against the collapse of the sector.
CEO of ZEEPAY, Andrew Takyi Appiah, on his part said the Central Bank should not relent on its efforts in enforcing its directives so as to bring sanity into the financial sector.
The National Labor Commission (NLC), is expected to meet the management of the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital (KATH), the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GALMS), and the Health Ministry next week.
The meeting will seek to find an amicable solution to the stand-off over the posting of two hematologists to the laboratory service department of the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital.
The Laboratory Scientists have been on a sit-down strike for close to a week now, in protest against the decision.
Authorities have resorted to other private laboratories to meet the needs of patients who require such services.
In an interview with Citi News, the Executive Secretary of NLC, Ofosu Asamoah, urged the members to resume work ahead of the meeting.
“The Ministry of Health was handling it earlier, so we were expecting that it would be solved by now. 
But as it stands, there is a need for us to step in. In the meantime, we want them to suspend the strike,” he stated.
Laboratory Scientists at KATH began a one-week sit-down strike last week to protest the posting of two medical officers to the Laboratory Services Directorate of the hospital.
Calls by the Ministry of Health and management of KATH for the scientists to resume work for dialogue to begin have yielded no results.
Meanwhile, the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists has announced that the strike would be escalated nationwide from Wednesday, May 26, 2021.
Speaking to Citi News, the National Public Relations Officer of the Association, Dennis Adu-Gyasi, said the decision was taken at an emergency meeting with its members.
“What is happening at KATH is an affront on the practice of medical laboratory science in Ghana. 
The leadership of Komfo Anokye is not ready to give in to the request of the scientists over there, and it is still imposing the medical officers on the professionals. 
We think it is a matter that needs to be taken up at the national level.  
We think that if by Wednesday nothing happens, we will take it [issue] up and escalate the industrial action on a national scale.”
Several officers at the Minerals Commission of Ghana have been transferred or reassigned to various regional and district offices across the country.
The move, according to Citi News sources at the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources, is aimed at ensuring efficiency at the Commission.
The shake-up is part of ongoing reforms to decentralize the licensing regime and enhance monitoring of mining operations.
The Commission is also hiring additional mining engineers to strengthen compliance with the health and safety rules of mining activities.
It has also embarked on a digitization exercise to streamline all of its data records and plans to transition to an entirely online system within the next three to six months. 
This will significantly reduce delays in the licensing process and will eliminate the paper application, with all clients expected to complete applications online.
Additionally, some employees are being trained in critical areas such as mineral economics, metal finance, ventilation, and geotechnical engineering to improve their skills and knowledge.
All these come at a time the government has renewed the fight against all forms of illegal mining to protect the country’s forest reserves and rivers.
Ever since international gold trading started over 400 years ago in the ‘Gold Coast’ at ‘El Mina’ has the winning of the precious metal become an existentialist threat like now. 
To save this nation,Government is being compelled to resort to radical measures, including burning equipment found near river bodies and in forest reserves.
Strong arguments against outright destruction through burning include illegality of burning, indiscriminate approach impacting legal miners and impunity of Government. 
Moreover, burning equipment is an expensive waste and has failed before and that rather, equipment should be seized, processed through court and used for other productive purposes by needy state institutions. 
Also, using the military as the primary enforcement agent is wrong. It should be police.
Attractive as these arguments are, the lived reality is one of genuine challenges to regulation and enforcement. 
State capacity, reflected in its footprint in terms of mining regulations management and enforcement, reach of courts, policing, advocacy and self-restraint through representative associations, have fallen short of curbing the menace. 
The Government needs precious time to retool regulations and bring responsible mining on stream. 
In the interim, irresponsible mining must be stopped from completely spiralling out of control.
And that is why it is necessary to burn stray equipment once and for all to deter repetitive destructive behaviour. 
The state is enforcing through burning because it must necessarily do so if it is to turn the tide in the short term whilst strengthening traditional regulatory measures in the medium to long term. 
As has often been repeated by H.E the President, he does not intend to stop the age old business of artisanal mining but its highly destructive modern version must necessarily be stopped with all the authority and force the state commands.
‘Necessity’is a legal construct which presumes acting beyond existing law in the interest of protecting a larger public interest. Glanville Williams says;
“By necessity is meant the assertion that conduct promotes some value higher than the value of literal compliance with the law”
Judges sometimes refer to it as justification. 
The key argument is that extraordinary measures overriding current legal rights are permissible if the intent and action is in the line of duty and will preserve larger public interests.
As a judicial officer of well over forty years standing, H.E the President is keenly aware of our capacities and what must be done to bring us up to speed. 
This is what he said in September 2018 to the Ghana Bar Association gathered in conference;
“… I began this address by indicating that I wanted us to be frank in our discussions about ourselves and about our conduct in the practice of our profession. 
Our nation has had a lot of difficulties with our politics and governance structures, but for the past 25 years we have had a stable political system. 
We have had regular elections and sitting governments have been defeated, and there have been peaceful transfers of power. 
We are making progress in our economic sectors also, but we need to do even more to meet the aspirations of our young and growing population, and feature among the leading lights of the world. 
One apparent restraint to our progress, what we may term the missing link in our governance system, which hampers the rapid economic development we seek, is the deficit in the application of the rule of law. 
It affects everyday life. 
It is about breaking rules and regulations in many aspects of our lives, and wanting to, and, indeed, circumventing the laws that are meant to guide our society. 
It has to do with driving recklessly, and breaking all the traffic regulations and trying to bribe the police when you are pulled up. It has to do with not getting the proper permit to build a house, and it has to do with looking the other way when something wrong is going on. 
It has to do with sharp practice and unethical behaviour by some lawyers, which jeopardise the administration of justice and the interests of ordinary people. 
It has to do with judicial corruption, which, a priori, constitutes a violation of the judicial oath.
It has to do with the degradation of our environment and the pollution of the atmosphere and of our water bodies. 
It has to do with petty bribery and corruption, and it has to do with bribery and corruption on a grand scale. 
I invite you to see and appreciate that many of the problems that plague our country have something to do with the mal-functioning of the law. 
Many a bad headline can be traced to a law and order problem. 
In our country, currently, the problems confronting our banking sector are dominating the headlines, as they should. The story of every bank that has had problems, be they indigenous Ghanaian banks or international banks, like Barings Bank, Lehman Brothers, Bank of Credit and Commerce International (BCCI), each one can be traced to someone or some people breaking the law, or trying to cut corners by flouting regulations. 
The effects of these acts of lawlessness have been, invariably, the loss, and threat of loss, of innocent depositors’ savings and jobs. 
When a building being constructed collapses and lives are lost, the cause can, in many cases, be traced to someone or some people breaking the law, or cutting corners. 
When a road that was built barely a year ago develops potholes, someone or some people have been breaking the law or cutting corners. The story of environmental degradation occasioned by illegal mining, what we call galamsey, is a clear case of people breaking the law. 
We, who are gathered in this room, know the law, which is the foundation of law and order, and the foundation of every organised and progressive society. Our work matters. 
It affects profoundly the ordering of the state. Promotion of the rule of law is at the heart of this Association’s vocation. 
Its members must be the natural champions of a law-based state, whose establishments should be solid enough to sanction effectively vigilantism, bank frauds, cyber frauds, sharp practice, illegal mining, unlawful exports of fertilisers and oil products, identity thefts, stealing of public funds, bribery and corruption, criminal cartels, and criminal behaviour in general. ….
So, let us be up and doing. Let us put our shoulders to the wheel so that future generations will appreciate our contribution to the making of a successful, democratic Ghana, which guarantees the liberties of our people, the institutions of good governance, the cohesion of our society, the well-being of the masses, and the peace, prosperity and unity of our nation.”
The President is being accused of impunity for trying hard to enforce rules that people routinely ignore. Yet, this is the President who has opened up the most space in the political governance arena. 
He is a known advocate of media rights, representing journalists in court, helping repeal criminal libel, passing Right to Information legislation and speaking to the Press regularly. 
He has overseen an explosion in social media-attracting both Google and Twitter. 
Nana Addo does not have the right, authority, capacity or inclination to stop the media from doing its legitimate work. 
All he wants is mutual responsibility and accountability for our actions. 
He will not shy away from that. 
The media ought not to appear to be a den of impunity. 
Indeed, no institution of state ought to be above lawful enquiry, as Rule of Law demands.
He has resolutely tackled political violence, taking the unprecedented steps of not only setting up a Commission after the Ayawaso West Wuogon election, but also encouraging the two major parties to dialogue face to face and then passing anti-violence legislation the success of which was more than evident in the 2020 Elections. 
Indeed, his tolerance for political debate was on show in the nearly two years of NDC protests against the EC and then he quietly set a great record by supporting the entire election budget from Government resources.
His political equanimity is evident in his relations with the current Parliament, especially Rt. Hon Speaker. 
He has quickly accepted the verdict of Ghana to work together and is doing so.
Significantly, he has also set up the most empowered institution to deal with political impunity. 
With our goodwill, The Office of the Special Prosecutor (OSP) will perhaps be the most enduring legacy of President Akufo-Addo, rivalling the mass spread of literacy that the educational reforms will bring.
In conclusion, the lack of self-restraint within the general populace, if not addressed resolutely, will overwhelm every progressive initiative of Government. 
The Hon. Greater Accra Regional Minister, embarks on a major clean up in response to our own complaints about a clean Accra and immediately, his methods, some of which are necessary, are questioned when the affected people are mostly breaking the law and rules with impunity.
There will be innocent victims. 
Those exceptions must be entitled to address their grievance in the context of the state institutions of redress, especially the judicial process. 
But the likelihood of innocent victims ought not to stop the state from exerting its authority in the interest of preserving our common heritage, be it in the cleaning of Accra or battling galamsey.
A joint operation by the counter-terrorism unit of the Ghana Police Service in the Northern Region led to the arrest of two people with an AK-47 rifle and pump-action guns in Tamale.
According to the Police, the suspects were allegedly planning to clash with an opposing faction in a chieftaincy dispute in the village of Bagliga Dakpem-Yili.
The Deputy Northern Region Police Commander, DSP Moses Atibilla, said they had been “terrorizing innocent citizens in Tamale here.”
On the AK-47 that was retrieved, the police suspect that it was a police weapon.
“The registration number of the AK-47 that was taken from the people had been erased, but it is suspected that this weapon may be police property,” DSP Moses Atibilla said.
A bulletproof vest was also retrieved from the suspects upon a search of their car. 
The police say their investigations indicate that the suspects were recruited by Yepalisi Naa, Alhaji Aminu Ayuba, to escort a newly installed chief from Banvim to the Bagliga community.
The two have been remanded by the court, whereas a third suspect, Alhaji Aminu Ayuba, the Yepalisi Chief, has been granted a police enquiry bail of GHS 200,000 and will reappear on May 31, 2021.
The Ghana Statistical Service says it is collaborating with the Ghana Health Service to vaccinate about 85,000 field officials who will be involved in the 2021 Population and Housing Census, before the start of the exercise.
The vaccination exercise is scheduled to take place from the 31st of May to 8th of June 2021.
At a press briefing on Sunday, Government Statistician, Professor Samuel Kakraba Annim, said the Service is taking all the necessary steps to ensure the safe conduct of the exercise.
“I will mention to all persons in Ghana that we are taking all the necessary steps to ensure that the census adheres to the strict protocols of COVID-19. 
What are some of the things we are doing? We have already engaged with the Ministry of Health through the Ghana Health Service, and they had an engagement with Dr. Anthony Nsiah Asare, who is the Presidential Advisor on Health, and a confirmation has been given that all 85,000 officials that we are going to engage from the beginning of 31st May 2021, will be vaccinated. 
All our 85,000 supervisors will go through the exercise.”
The 2021 Population and Housing Census (PHC), with the slogan, ‘You Count, Get Counted’, will provide the opportunity for the country to gather credible and comprehensive data on the citizenry towards transforming the economy for sustainable development.
The census was originally scheduled for 2020, but will now take place from the 27th of June 2021.
The GSS is the lead agency for the conduct of the Census and has divided the country into 51,921 enumeration areas to ensure easy collection of geospatial data across the 260 metropolitan, municipal, and district assemblies.
This year’s census will be the sixth conducted in Ghana since the post-independence era.
The country conducted a National Census in 1960, 1970, 1984, 2000, and 2010.
Ghana’s population has since moved from 6.7 million in 1960 to 24.6 million in 2010, and currently estimated at 30 million.
The Ghana Armed Forces (GAF) has expressed concern about the high number of excavators parked in mining communities.
According to the Chief of Defence Staff, Vice Admiral Seth Amoama, over seven hundred excavators believed to have been moved from mining sites are likely to be taken back to mining sites.
The government in its efforts to fight illegal mining launched the third phase of the new ‘Operation Halt’.
This involves the use of the military to destroy all mining equipment at illegal mining sites and also apprehend illegal miners.
In his address to some personnel during his visit to some illegal mining sites, the Chief of Defence Staff noted that the illegal miners now mine at night under the protection of heavily armed men.
He however indicated that his personnel will adjust their operations to apprehend the miners.
“What is disturbing is that the excavators that have been taken from the mining sites are packed in towns, villages and by roadsides in clusters of 10 to 20, and there is a very high tendency that these excavators will find their way back to the galamsey sites during the night when our operations halt.”
The GAF has said its officers, deployed to curb illegal mining on water bodies and in forest reserves, will not hesitate to destroy all equipment found at illegal mining sites.
It said visits by military personnel tasked to stop illegal mining activities, had shown that “there were still some illegal mining activities going on in some of the areas that had hitherto been cleared by Operation Halt II”.
“These illegal activities were mostly being done in the night or under the cover of darkness protected by armed guards, as used cartridges were found at the sites. 
The Operation Halt II patrol that accompanies the team was ordered to destroy logistics found in these areas,” the statement added.
Recently, the Defence Minister, Dominic Nitiwul, warned illegal miners working at night that they do so at their own risk.
He noted that, during the different phases of ‘Operation Halt’, some miners were found to be carrying out their activities at night.
At a press briefing in Accra on Wednesday, Dominic Nitiwul said the military has been equipped to deal with such recalcitrant miners.
“We know that they do that from 9:00pm to 4:00am. 
That’s how brave they are. 
We know, and we know the towns they are doing it in, so we will come after you. Don’t try it,” Mr. Nitiwul warned.
“So if you go out there to mine, I cannot guarantee your safety when the soldiers are going to apprehend you. 
So I will advise you to not go out. It is not worth it.”
The Deputy Director of Public Health (DDPH) in the Ashanti Region, Dr. Michael Rockson Adjei, has emphasized that Larval Source Management (LSM), is a crucial malaria control intervention.
He has therefore advised Ghanaians to embrace this measure when its implementation begins.
Dr. Adjei made the statement while speaking to journalists at the end of a one-day LSM training session held for health workers in Kumasi in the Ashanti Region, on Friday, May 21, 2021.
The training, which took place in Kumasi, was organised by Zoomlion Ghana Limited (ZGL) in partnership with the Ghana Health Service (GHS) under its National Malaria Control Programme (NAMCOP) and Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research (NMIMR).
It brought together 160 health workers from 18 districts in the region with Obuasi serving as the main hub for the programme.
The districts are Asokore Mampong, Asokwa, Ashanti Mampong Municipal, Kwabre East, Ejisu, Old Tafo, Manhyia North, Manhyia South, Atwima Mponua, Atwima Nwabiagya, Atwima Kwanwoma, Sekyere East, Kwadaso, Bosomtwe, Suame, Bekwai, Oforikrom and Offinso.
Dr. Adjei explained that LSM was basically to control the vector that carries the malaria parasite.
“It is also to ensure how to control the anopheles mosquito in limiting the number of vectors.”
This intervention, he further noted, will help decrease the number of malaria cases, “we see at a particular time or in a month.”
He said the application of larvicide was done at various mosquito breeding sites that could be dredged.
“For example, you may have a very big water body like a lake that we cannot readily drain or even a marshy area that serves as a source or breeding site for mosquitoes,” he added.
According to him, the application of larvicide is crucial in fighting the development state of the vector. 
He added that “it will enable us to reduce the population of mosquitoes.”
Dr. Adjei emphasized the need for intense collaboration between GHS, ZGL and the communities.
Ashanti Regional Environmental Health Officer, Mr. Don Awantungo, who was satisfied with the session, said the LSM training will help in controlling malaria cases in the region.
“In fact, this particular programme would help so much in tackling mosquitoes from the larvae stage,” he said.
He, therefore, commended the organizers for putting together the training programme, pointing out that “we need to equip field workers so that they can do their work well.”
The Zoomlion General Manager for Ashanti East, Franklin Ofori Akuffo, indicated that LSM was one of the best interventions in the control of malaria.
He reiterated his outfit’s commitment to supporting the government in its efforts to improve the lot of the citizenry.
“I encourage our workers to give in their best because at the end of the day they are going to pay for whatever they are doing. 
And once you have been paid for it, we need to go out there and do our best so that the programme would be a success.”
A 48-year-old mason has been sentenced to 15 years in prison for defiling a four-year-old girl at Odorkor in Accra.
Akwesi Yeboah pleaded not guilty to the charge of defilement, but was found guilty by the Accra Circuit Court, presided over by Ms. Christiana Cann, after a full trial.
The court was told that Yeboah applied a cream into the girl’s vagina, which gave her a burning sensation, after which she inserted his finger into her and defiled her.
The facts, as presented by the prosecutor, Chief Inspector Kofi Atimbire, were that on April 16, 2018, around 7: 30 p.m, the victim’s parents started looking for her when it dawned on them that she was not around, and nobody knew her whereabouts.
During the search, the father saw her emerge from the room of the accused crying, with her dress wet and the zip opened.
The prosecutor said the father questioned her about why she was crying, and she disclosed that Yeboah called her to come for money to buy biscuits, revealing that “when she followed him to his room, Yeboah put her on his bed and inserted his penis into her vagina”.
The father, according to the prosecution, asked his wife to check what was wrong with the victim, and she confirmed that her daughter was bleeding and also smelled of Robb ointment in her private parts.
he prosecutor said a complaint was lodged with the Domestic Violence and Victim Support Unit of the Police Service at Odorkor, where a medical report form was issued to the complainant, the father, to send the victim to the hospital.
Yeboah was subsequently arrested and arraigned.
The Indian High Commissioner to Ghana, H.E Sugandh Rajaram, is scheduled to pay an official visit to Yendi on 25th May 2021 as part of his diplomatic overtures to strengthen ties between India and the people of Yendi.
This reciprocal visit follows on the heels of an earlier visit by Mr. Farouk Aliu Mahama, MP for Yendi to the Indian High Commissioner, to discuss issues of mutual concern, particularly the Yendi Water Project and other investment opportunities.
At that meeting on April 12, 2021, at the Indian High Commission in Accra, the High Commissioner, Mr. Rajaram expressed his desire to visit Yendi saying “it will be exciting and great for India to collaborate with the people of Yendi in areas of skills training, information, technology, and medicine,”.
He promised to visit the ancient town as soon as possible to strengthen the relationship.
This planned visit on Tuesday, 25th May, is in fulfillment of his pledge
As part of his visit, the High Commissioner and the MP shall pay a courtesy call on the Yaa-Naa, and also hold crunch meeting with the MP and other dignitaries, and visit the Yendi Water Project site.
It is instructive to note that the $30 million Yendi Water Project is funded by a facility from the Indian Exim Bank, and it is being executed by WAPCOS, an Indian civil engineering/consultancy firm.
The second phase of Ghana’s COVID-19 vaccination exercise has started across the country but with incidents of undue delays at various centers.
Citi News‘ checks at some centers revealed that although many people turned up very early in the morning, as early as 4:00 am, they had not been served as at 10:00am.
Some of those who spoke to Citi News said the vaccines did not arrive until almost midday.
“I was here around 5.30am. It is almost 12:00pm, and I have just got vaccinated. 
Those of us who came here were asked to write our names and form the queue so that we will be served in that order. 
Shortly after they begun, we realized that the list had been replaced with another one that had other people. 
This angered many of us, and it generated a lot of confusion. 
Those in charge of the exercise haven’t done well,” an elderly man who got his second jab at the Legon Hospital told Citi News.
Another woman at the Adabraka Polyclinic said, “I fall in the category. 
I was called on phone. 
Since we got here, nobody has been attended to. 
Nobody is talking to us. 
They should have told us that when we get here, we need to go for re-registration. 
They should have done that.”
Only persons who took their first COVID-19 jab between1st and 9th March 2021, are eligible for the second jab currently being administered.
A total of 360,000 persons in 43 districts of the country, 25 in the Greater Accra Region, 16 in the Ashanti Region and two in the Central Region, have been targeted to receive their second doses in this new exercise.
Over 852,000 have so far received the first jab in the first phase of the vaccination exercise.
Ghana’s President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, has expressed profound commiserations to the Federal Republic of Nigeria following the unfortunate passing of its Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru and several others.
President Akufo-Addo on behalf of the government of Ghana and Ghanaians sympathized with Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari and the rest of the population over Lt. Gen. Attahiru’s death and that of seven other officials.
In a post on social media, President Akufo-Addo said:
“I express the deep condolences of the government and people of Ghana and of myself personally to President Buhari and the government and the people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on the shocking, tragic deaths of Nigeria’s Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru.”
“Our hearts go out to their families and may their souls rest in perfect peace”, Akufo-Addo tweeted.
Lt-Gen Ibrahim Attahiru, was killed after a military Beachcraft 350 aircraft crashed in the north-western state of Kaduna on Friday, May 21, 2021.
The incident happened as the plane was trying to land in bad weather, the military said.
Ten other officers, including the plane’s crew, also died.
President Muhammadu Buhari has said he is“deeply saddened” by the crash.
Gen. Attahiru, 54, only took up his post in January in an overhaul of the military’s top brass.
It was part of the government’s plan to boost the military’s efficiency in fighting a more than decade-long jihadist insurgency.
The Nigerian Air Force said the incident happened as the plane was landing at Kaduna International Airport.
On Twitter, President Buhari said the crash was a “mortal blow… at a time our armed forces are poised to end the security challenges facing the country”.
The crash comes three months to the day after a Nigerian military plane crashed short of a runway in the capital Abuja, killing all seven people on board.
The Vice Chancellor of the University for Development Studies (UDS), Prof Gabriel Ayum Teye says “reports reaching his office indicate that some supervisors hardly give quality guidance to the students assigned to them and this does not help in the production of quality thesis.”
The complaint has also featured prominently lately in the reports of external examiners
Prof. Teye has therefore warned such supervisors that his administration will not tolerate the “attitude”.
He was however, quick to add that there are a lot of serious minded supervisors in the university community and urged them to keep up.
The Vice Chancellor expressed the sentiments the in a speech read for him by the Principal of the Wa Campus of UDS, Prof. Sylvester Z. 
Galaa at the matriculation of graduate students pursuing sandwich programs in Wa.
In this piece, correspondent Emmanuel Mensah-Abludo says the students at the Wa campus are pursuing their courses at the Faculty of Integrated Development Studies, School of Business and Law as well as the Faculty of Planning and Land Management.
The Vice Chancellor of UDS, Prof Teye equally requested all heads of departments to make use of plagiarism software known as “Turn-it-in” acquired by the University to improve the originality of all research work.
The University challenged those pursuing sandwich programs to make use of library facilities and electronic-resources at their disposal else, they will end up leaving the institution academically ignorant thereby not developing the critical analytical skills for situations.
Prof. Galaa conferred a full junior membership on the students and advised them sign the Matriculation Register, saying: “You should note that failure to sign the Register implies that you would forfeit the admission into this University for this academic year. 
I must observe that graduate students in the past have taken this requirement for granted and I wish to direct the Registrar toinvoke the needed sanctions for students who willfully ignore this important prerequisite as part of the admission.”
The gathering was told that distance courses have been started for candidates in remote districts who hardly get opportunity to upgrade themselves and that the initiative is aimed at widening the university’s coverage to allow teachers and other workers in “distant communities” to obtain qualifications that are relevant to their career objectives.
The Minister of Roads and Highways has revealed that President Akufo-Addo was on the verge of weeping when he travelled on the Hamile road in the Upper West Region, sometime ago.
According to Kwesi Amoako-Attah, the Hamile road was in such a terrible state that travelling on it with the President was near impossibility.
But he said that President Akufo-Addo immediately directed him to, as a matter of urgency, ensure the road is constructed.
Speaking at a press briefing in Accra on Sunday, May 23, 2021, on measures the government is taking to improve Ghana’s road network, the sector Minister indicated that the Hamile road has now been asphalted.
“After driving on the Hamile road, terrible road, when we sat down, President beckoned me. 
He said, Minister, did you see the road we travelled on, the towns, and the conditions of the people? The President said, when I was in my car, I felt like weeping when we were driving on that road.”
“This is the President of the Republic. He said that is why anywhere we go, I don’t want to go with a helicopter. 
I want to experience and I want to drive on the roads. 
The President of the Republic said I felt like weeping. 
He then directed me to work on the road. 
Today, my engineers are here, that road to Hamile is done and brought to a bituminous level” he said.
Mr Amoako-Attah indicated that the government is seriously constructing and fixing deplorable roads across the country.
He further explained that Ghana’s roads would not have been in their current state if previous governments had tackled the road sector in a serious and robust manner like the way President Akufo-Addo’s administration is doing.
The Roads and Highways Minister said that President Akufo-Addo’s second term is projecting to complete 6,000 kilometers out of 11,000 kilometers of roads.
Mr Amoako-Atta stated that the 6,000 kilometres of roads to be completed falls under critical, cocoa, town roads and asphalt overlays, and the Sinohydro Master Project Support Facility.
On the critical roads programme, the Minister said part of the roads to be completed are; Navrongo to Naga stretch the Wa to Bulenga to Yaala road, Salaga to Ekumdipe to Kpandai road which is 60% complete, upgrading of Yagaba to Mankarigu road as well as the upgrading of Daboya to Mankarigu road among hosts of road projects
Mr Amoako-Attah said that government has never and cannot promise to fix all of Ghana’s roads within a four-year period.
He, however, indicated that government will remain focused on delivering on its mandate and will not be intimidated.
The Ghana Mine Workers’ Union has called for a full-scale tripartite (Government, the Ghana Chamber of Mines, and Ghana Mineworkers’ Union) investigation into the frequent occurrences of mine accidents, for a more sustainable panacea to the issue.
The Union has also urged the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources, and by extension the Minerals Commission and its Inspectorate Division, to as a matter of urgency conduct a thorough investigation into the recent underground accident that saw three of its valued members working in the same area trapped, out of which two managed to escape and one still missing since Tuesday May 18, 2021. 
“The Union will also want to use this opportunity to renew its call and advocacy on the need for government to prioritize the ratification of International Labour Organization Convention 176 (Safety and Health in the Mines Convention) in order to further tighten and align the industry’s health and safety regulatory framework to globally acceptable standards”, it said in a statement.
This is coming after AngloGold Ashanti announced the suspension of operations at its Obuasi mine, over a missing staff.
“Globally, activities around mining in general are risky but the level of risk exposure doubles when the operation is underground. 
It is against this backdrop that the industry is heavily regulated in terms of occupational health and safety standards and best practices”, it said.
Furthermore, it said “Ghana as a prominent hub of mining in Africa has not fared badly in regulating the formal subsector of its industry but in recent times, a notorious trend of mine accidents and incidents with its consequential fatalities happening in some of the underground operations, particularly AngloGold Ashanti, Obuasi Mine, and its surrogate Underground Mining Alliance that has claimed three precious lives since June 2020, are becoming a blot on the enviable record chalked up by Ghana, especially after the structural adjustment programme in the 80s”. 
As a trade union organization that has for 75 years sought the protection and welfare of workers in the industry, it said it takes an uncompromising opposition to these worrying and preventable fatalities that are shedding the blood of innocent workers in atonement for the profiteering motives of these multinational corporations. 
The union therefore pointed out that it will not countenance any more of these avoidable deaths and shall therefore not hesitate to withdraw its services if urgent and robust steps are not taken to eliminate and prevent these needless accidents from becoming a recurrent feature of the workplace.  
AngloGold Ashanti reported last week “with deep regret”, that an employee of its mining contractor at the Obuasi Gold Mine in Ghana, is “missing after a fall of ground in one of the operation’s mining stopes”.
In a statement, the miner said the incident occurred on Tuesday morning and “immediately triggered a search and rescue effort”.
“The mine rescue teams have been working tirelessly in difficult geotechnical conditions in the immediate area, to locate our missing colleague”, AngloGold Ashanti said.
Unknown gunmen have shot to death, a headteacher in his home at Cape Coast in the Central Region.
The deceased, Yaw Eyifa Gorman, popularly known as Dr Sting, was shot in his car after he returned home from a training programme on Population Census
Narrating the incident to JoyNews, one of the deceased’s co-tenants said the incident which happened around 7:40 pm has brought fear into the house because the headmaster was shot on his own compound.
He stated that they heard the sound of the gun and rushed out to figure out what it was only to find their colleague had been shot.
“We were all in our room and we heard a loud noise ‘boom’. Some of us even thought it was a knockout.
“Then all of a sudden, we heard his wife screaming ‘Please someone should come and help me!’ So when we did, we saw his lifeless body in front of his steering wheel with blood in the car,” he told JoyNews.
The co-tenants described Mr Gorman as a very friendly and cordial person. Thus, were surprised by the incident.
“He has no issue with anybody in this house. 
This is disturbing and shocking, because it didn’t happen anywhere in town but right in his house and that is what we are afraid of.”
He then charged the police to hunt down the perpetrators and bring them to book.
The Member of Parliament for Pru East Dr. Kwabena Donkor has lamented the spate of robberies in his constituency.
According to him, although communities are in the area have long struggled with robberies, the situation appears to be getting out of control in recent times.
It comes on the back of the killing of a military officer in a highway robbery in the area on Saturday.
Speaking to Francis Abban on the Morning Starr Monday, the lawmaker said intelligence failure has led to the rise in crime in the area.
“I believe it’s an intelligence failure. We’ve had too many of this so the security officials have to up their game even though we appreciate what the IGP has done for us. 
That whole corridor is under threat. Economic activity is under threat. 
We are already starting from the bottom so if our effort is negated by crime, then we have a serious problem,” he said.
He noted efforts at addressing the crime situation in the area have been unsuccessful.
“They’ve even brought a regional patrol team to augment what we have but the situation is still there. 
I think unemployment and other factors are giving birth to this high-level rate of crimes and as a country, we are sitting on a timebomb”.
Similar incidents of robberies are happening across the country. 
In the Central region, a headmaster at Cape Coast was shot in front of his house on Saturday evening while returning from a meeting. 
In the Eastern region, robbers mounted roadblock on Monday dawn and robbed passengers plying that route. A passenger was shot in the attack.
The Ghana Revenue Authority (GRA) has given some Oil Marketing Companies including Santol Energy the green light to continue their operations nationwide.
According to the GRA, Santol Energy and a few others have satisfactorily met the requirements to proceed with their business.
The development comes as the GRA is clamping down on OMCs across the country that have not met relevant statutory requirements.
In an interview with Starr News, Chief Revenue Officer of the Debt Management Unit of the GRA Nathaniel Nii Okai Tetteh said companies who are still facing regulatory sanctions have been given a window to redeem themselves.
“What I’m saying is as at now, it seems there has been a satisfactory arrangement between the company (Santol) and then the authority [commisioner general]. 
So, for today, I can say their status has changed…. 
There has been a satisfactory arrangement with commissioner-general.”
He added, “as at this morning, Santol Energy’s assets have been released and they are working “.
An Economist at the University of Ghana Business School, Dr Lord Mensah, says Ghana’s economy has been in distress since 2017 adding that the government must reduce its appetite for borrowing from the local market.
Speaking on the Morning Starr on Monday, May 10, Dr Mensah said the government must also restructure its policies and put in place policies that will engage the private sector to help revive the economy.
“The economy has been hanging, and it’s been hanging for the past four years. And it has to do at the macro level. For now, what is going to happen is that gov’t needs to restructure its policies and the policies should engage the private sector,” Dr Mensah said, adding, “the Government must reduce its appetite for borrowing from the local market.” 
Dr Mensah also wondered how the Akufo-Addo led government has borrowed so much with little to show for in terms of infrastructural development.
“In a situation where we’ve borrowed so much and you can’t see infrastructure to go with it, then it becomes a cause to worry. There’s no lender who’ll give you money for consumption so if we don’t see infrastructure to go with the monies borrowed, then it’s been used for something else.” 
His comments come after the Information Minister, Kojo Oppong Nkrumah said the Akufo-Addo government had to embark on extra borrowing in order to get the Ghanaian economy functioning despite the harsh impact of COVID-19.
He said the media must play a role in reminding Ghanaians about the devasting impact the pandemic has had on the world economy and the need to work with the government in finding solutions.
“We have to literally break the banks, borrowed money that we have never borrowed before, exceed some of the very fine statistical limits that we have put in place. 
We have to sacrifice all that so we can pump resources into ensuring that today you and I are still alive and we are not like India,” he told the media in Tamale.
He stressed: “Today you see a deficit of 11%, you see debt to GDP ratio over 70%, you see revenues are falling, you see expenditure is challenged. 
That is to be expected if we are going to sacrifice that to protect lives.”
The Ministry of Finance and the European Investment Bank have signed an agreement for the provision of a one hundred- and seventy-million-euro (€170 million) facility for the establishment of a new national bank, the Development Bank Ghana (DBG).
DBG is an integral feature of the GH¢100 billion Ghana Cares ‘Obaatampa’ Project, which will see the revitalization of the Ghanaian economy following the onset of COVID-19.
This event took place on Wednesday, 19th May 2021, when President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, held a meeting with the President of the European Investment Bank, Dr. Werner Hoyer, as part of his official visit to Belgium.
The €170 million facility, according to Dr. Hoyer, is the largest facility provided by the European Investment Bank for the establishment of a development bank in Africa or for any other project, for that matter, on the continent.
Speaking at the signing ceremony, President Akufo-Addo noted that “the Development Bank Ghana is going to play a very important part in the rapid economic transformation of Ghana, following the onset of COVID-19.”
According to him, “We want to restructure the economy and move it from being a mere producer and exporter of raw materials to one that places much greater emphasis on value addition activities.
We see this Bank (DBG) as one that will play a pivotal role in this”.
The President indicated that the design and operation of the Bank, “which has been on the drawing board for the last two years”, will satisfy the highest standards, scrutiny and best practices of Development Banks across the world, assuring further that the €170 million facility from the EIB will be used for the purposes for which it was sought.”
President Akufo-Addo reiterated that the provision of this facility signals the determination of Ghana to continue partnering with the EU, with the President informing Dr. Hoyer that Ghana will fall on the EIB to continue to finance other projects in the pipeline, as the country works to recover from the impact of COVID-19.
The Minister of State-designate for Finance, Mr. Charles Adu Boahen, who was also present at the signing ceremony, explained that the focus of Government, since the onset of COVID-19, has been to put in place the building blocks for an inclusive and sustainable economic recovery.
“With the overall objective of creating a favourable environment to spur private sector-led growth, the Government of Ghana recognizes the importance of a substantial allocation of development capital to critical economic sectors at sustainable interest rates and longer tenures. Accordingly, there has been a heightened need to establish the Development Bank Ghana.
He stressed that the Development Bank Ghana will be a central player for Ghana’s economic recovery and structural transformation, “especially given the importance of counter-cyclical support in stimulating private enterprise.”
Dr. Hoyer, on his part, was confident that the establishment of Development Bank Ghana will help unlock opportunities for growth in Ghana, as well assist in the rapid recovery of the Ghanaian economy from the ravages of COVID-19.
He noted that the establishment of the Bank is in line with the objectives of the European Union, and will help develop Ghana’s private sector, agri-business, manufacturing and ICT initiatives.
Whilst describing the decision to establish DBG as “a wise one”, the EIB President added that the Bank sees the partnership with Ghana as a fruitful one, indicating that the EIB will follow keenly the development and workings of DBG in Ghana.
Former President John Mahama has withdrawn his acceptance of the African Union’s appointment as its High Representative for Somalia.
In a letter to the Chairperson of the African Union Commission, Mr. Mahama noted that “the high political importance of the proposed assignment requires that the High Representative enjoy the unalloyed support and co-operation of all political stakeholders.”
Mr. Mahama’s appointment as the AU envoy was welcomed by the Council of Presidential Candidates of Somalia, and the Coalition of Somalia’s Federal Member States. 
The appointment was however challenged by a section of the feuding faction in the troubled country.
Mr Mahama’s letter further cautioned the AU Chairperson, Moussa Faki Mahamat, that the lack of support by the Federal Government could “jeopardize the whole process and undermine the hopes that the entire world has in bringing peace to the esteemed land of Somalia,” a statement from the Office of the former President said.
Road contractors in the country have urged Roads and Highways Minister Kwesi Amoako-Atta to resort to the same passion with which he condemns bad roads in paying contractors for jobs done.
According to the contractors, getting paid for jobs done has become a difficult banter between them and the government leading to the death of some contractors.
It comes on the back of claims of the minister that government will be going hard on contractors in the coming weeks over shoddy jobs. 
He said the roads ministry is moving the defect liability period from 12 months to five years.
Reacting to the comment, the Chief Executive Officer of the Ghana Chamber of Construction Emmanuel Cherry said alot of roads would have been fixed by now if the government had followed agreements.
“We are now entering into the rainy season and as we speak a lot of construction has stalled. 
Some of the contractors have moved from sites because the contractual agreement hasn’t been met. 
If you want to see the efficiency of a Ghanaian contractor, payment has to be made. 
We are challenging the minister to pay us well and then we’ll provide the quality he wants. 
The passion and energy the minister spoke with yesterday, I love it but he should put that same passion into paying us,” he told Francis Abban on Morning Starr Monday. 
The contractor also bemoaned the challenge with political contractors in the construction chain.
“We have political contractors in our midst. 
A contract that’s supposed to go to tendering is given to a party person who knows nothing about construction. 
That is also part of having shoddy works”.
Meanwhile, government has earmarked 120 out of 200 programmed bridges in various part of the country for completion this year.
The Roads Minister made the disclosure at government’s press briefing in Accra on Sunday May 23, 2021. 
According to him, this forms part of government’s broader plan of improving the country’s road network and bring development close to Ghanaians. 
Part of the programmed bridges for construction Mr. Amoako-Atta said are 50 bridges under the Czech Bridges Programme of which “bridge components are being fabricated in Czech Republic with the arrival of 21 of them in the country pending the start of work.”
He also disclosed that among the 120 bridges is Dikpe, Iture and Ankobra Bridge, the Volivo cable stay bridge, Adawso to Ekyeamanfrom Bridge over the Volta in Afram Plains, 89 Mabey Bailey Bridges as well as the reconstruction of Buipe, Yapei and Daboya Bridges.
This he said the contract has been awarded with preliminary designs submitted pending approval for work to begin.
The Ghana Union of Traders Association (GUTA) at Kasoa in the Awutu Senya East District of the Central region has threatened to close down shops of foreign nationals engaged in retail businesses.
The group said the invasion of foreigners in retail business is collapsing their businesses.
General Secretary of GUTA at Kasoa, Bright Agyemang, who spoke to a section of the media expressed worry over the government’s inability to enforce the laws on foreign businesses in Ghana.
Speaking to Kasapa FM’s Central Regional Correspondent Yaw Boagyan, he said that their members of the association are furious and becoming impatient towards the continuous invasion of foreigners in the retail business.
He said: “The foreigners have taken over our market that is why GUTA is complaining, they have taken over all across the country but as it is now, Kasoa is the strongest area for these foreigners.
“So we are praying to the government to come to our aid”
“The law says a foreigner cannot do retail except Ghanaians but the foreigners are doing retail in our markets and so we will close their shops. 
We will use the law we will enforce the law to close their shops”.
The Akuapem North Municipal Director of Education has assured students of the Akropong School for the blind that the concerns about their living conditions and treatment meted out to them by their headmistress will be addressed. The students accused the headmistress Mahela Narh of mismanagement leading to gradual collapse of the school and poor academics
Time and time again, we get to witness different regimes of governance after so many years but Ghanaians continue to be served with a high level of ineptitude and multiple cases of abandonment of government projects.
There has been a penchant for the total disregard for uncompleted projects in this country and we have seen one too many of these.
It appears a very critical technological intervention, an integrated ICT System which was unveiled by the Microfinance and Small Loans Centre (MASLOC) exactly a year ago has not seen the light of day.
As a matter of fact, this project has already turned into a Deja Vu and in complete limbo. 
Citizens are being bombarded with all kinds of government projects funded with and worth millions of dollars but these projects are wasted in spite of all the expertise at play.
This timely intervention by MASLOC was a brilliant concept meant to support the operations of MASLOC by processing loan disbursement digitally, increase access to their products and services, reduce the human interface in their operations and increase efficiency through enhanced performance.
The system was designed in a way that it came with the introduction of the MASLOC CARD for applications.
With this technology, applicants were expected to receive the results of their applications within 24 hours, with the card containing such vital information as the applicant’s Tax Identification Number, Ghana Post GPS address, and also useable on ATM machines.
But from recent developments at MASLOC, the project has been in limbo and nothing purposeful has come out of it.
MASLOC still resorts to the old system of applications coupled with a direct human interface in dealing with applicants and loan beneficiaries.
We are indeed compelled to ask some critical questions at this point.
What has led to the stalling of the MASLOC ICT Project?
Whose responsibility was it in ensuring that the new system worked to serve its purpose of investment?
After one year of the launch of the project, what are the authorities waiting to be fixed in order to make the ICT System fully operational?
Referee Sulemana Latif has been suspended from football related activities for the rest of the season for failing to award a clear penalty as well as other incorrect decisions in the Division One League match between Skyy FC and Pacific Heroes FC.
The Committee also handed Referee Selorm Kpormegbe a six-match suspension for his inability to whistle when an attacker was recklessly fouled in the Ghana Premier League match between Karela FC and Bechem United FC.
The Committee however exonerated Referee George Mawuli Vormawah for his performance in the Ghana Premier League match between Berekum Chelsea and WAFA.
In other decisions, the Review panel also highly commended Referee Rejoice Addokwei for her bold decision in the Women’s Premier League match between Supreme Ladies and Pearl Pia Ladies.
Referee Addokwei correctly ignored the assistant referee’s flag and ruled that a goal scored by Pearl Pia FC was perfect goal and not offside. 
The Committee however cautioned Assistant Referee 2, Gifty Doku to be conversant with the Laws of the Game.
Lastly the Match review panel exonerated the match officials from taking any wrongful decisions in the WPL game between Hasaacas and Soccer Intellectuals.
The Anti-galamsey military task force (Operation Halt) has reportedly returned to the mining site of the ruling New Patriotic Party, Women’s Organizer for the third time to burn a generator plant and a wooden office structure at the mining site.
The military also assaulted security men on duty.
“They returned on Saturday, sprinkled patrol on the generator plant, and around our office facility and set fire into them. 
They burnt everything in the room including the Television set, DSTV decoder and our personal belongings,” Nana Asante Boadi Yeboah Secretary at the mining site told Starr News.
He said, “the security men were deployed by the Company to protect the site so people don’t come around to steal but they were beaten by the military with the butt of the rifles”. 
Operation Halt taskforce on Sunday, May 16 2021, invaded the mining site of Kate Gyamfua at Akyem Pameng in Atew West District in the Eastern region and set ablaze eight excavators, a bulldozer and dozens of water pumping machines.
Three of the burnt excavators and a bulldozer were brand new being used for reclamation.
The military returned Monday, May 17, 2021, at about 4:00 pm to burn a faulty bulldozer that escaped their notice and large water pumping machines.
So far a total of nine excavators, two bulldozers, five smaller generators, a generator plant, 150 small pumping machines, 250 gallons of diesel have been burnt, the office structure and other items have been destroyed. Management of Xtra Gold Ghana Mining company under whose concession Kate Gyamfua was mining in her capacity as General Manager, has maintained that it is not operating illegally, that, it has all valid documents to mine.
However, the Defence Minister, Dominic Nitiwul, has explained that licensed mining companies will be treated as illegal miners if their activities pollute water bodies.
“What they did not know is that we are not touching the licenses. 
It is the illegalities we are touching. 
Our target was protecting water bodies and their tributaries, not your license.”
“You can have a license but if you were destroying the water bodies, the soldiers were supposed to make sure that they take out the equipment that you were using. 
So soldiers were not out to inspect licences,” the Minister explained at a press conference held in Accra on Wednesday, May 19, 2021. 
Mr. Nitiwul also defended the decision of the military to burn the mining equipment of miners operating illegally.
According to him, it wasn’t just the NPP executive’s company that had been affected by the work of the task force.
“Maybe because they [other mining companies] don’t have a political voice, they were not making noise. 
But their equipment was destroyed as well,”
The Headmistress of Seventh Day Adventist (SDA) Senior High School in Koforidua -Asokore in the Eastern Region is being investigated by the National Intelligent Bureau (NIB) for administrative infractions.
The Headmistress Mrs Naomi Abena Nyarkoa Yeboah Abasi has been accused of collecting feeding fees from students at her private hostel but feeds them with meals meant for boarding students. 
Dormitory infrastructural constraints in the school disabled the school from admitting hundreds of first-year students who wanted to be boarders.
Due to this, some teachers in the school as well as the headmistress have rented private apartments and converted them into private hostels to accommodate the students.
The Headmistress furnished her private hostel with students beds meant for the school.
She also takes Ghc200 as feeding fee from each student per month but feeds the students with meals allegedly prepared for boarding students.
During Starr News investigation into the matter, it came to light that, the National Intelligence Bureau (NIB) was also investigating same and had with immediate effect stopped the Headmistress from feeding the students from the school. 
The Headmistress, Naomi Nyarkoa Yeboah however explained that she established the private hostel due to parents insistence to get their wards who could not get boarding status and secured accommodation where they will be supervised.
She claimed, the feeding fees collected from the students were given to the matron of the school to buy food items to cook for the students in her private hostel.
The Headmistress also said the students bed were the excess beds which were packed under the mercy of the weather.
According to the headmistress, she acted in good faith to help the students especially the girls who were wandering in town in search of accommodation.
Meanwhile, the old students association are pursuing the Headmistress to render account on some alleged financial malfeasance. 
Achimota School has backed down on a decision to freeze the court order to admit the two Rastafarian boys.
The school’s board in a statement on Wednesday, June 2, 2021, said it is however committed to an appeal against the ruling of the High Court.
It said the decision comes after consultations with two stakeholders on the way forward.
“Further to our statement issued on 1st June 2021 on the subject of two Rastafarian applicants, we have been in consultation with other relevant stakeholders to seek the best ways forward, taking into account the interests of all parties,” it said.
Adding that, “while the Board remains committed to the appeal against the High Court ruling, it will withdraw the application for a stay of execution pending the determination of the appeal by a higher court.” The Education Minister,  Dr. Yaw Osei Adutwum was earlier today outraged over what he termed as the ‘unilateral position’ by the Governing Board of Achimota School to appeal the High Court order.
The Minister said it is not in the place of the board to take such a decision.
“I am very surprised, the Board cannot take that unilateral position to go back to court”, Dr. Adutwum said on Metro TV’s Good Evening Ghana.
 
An Accra High Court on Monday, May 31, 2021 delivered its ruling regarding the denial of two Rastafarian boys; Tyrone Marhguy and Oheneba Nkrabea admission to Achimota School because they failed to cut their dreadlocks.
Justice Gifty Adjei Addo, the Presiding Judge, disagreed with the submissions of the Attorney General and granted all the reliefs separately sought by the embattled students except the relief of compensation in the case of Tyrone Marhguy.
According to Justice Addo, it is preposterous for the Attorney General to have even suggested that the two were not students in the first place.
Justice Gifty Adjei Addo consequently directed Achimota School to admit the two Rastafarian students.
Following the court’s decision, Achimota School through its board announced that it will appeal the decision.
The school subsequently made efforts to secure a stay of execution order in order to freeze the implementation of the order but it has now announced that it has withdrawn that decision.


The Ashanti Regional Police Command says the 43-year-old man who was shot during a robbery incident at Buokrom Estate in Kumasi has died.
According to the police, in the early hours of Tuesday, June 1, 2021, four armed men on a motorbike stormed a non-bank financial agency and stole an amount of GHS 138,000.
Speaking to the media at a news conference, the Public Relations Officer of the Ashanti Regional Police Command, ASP Godwin Ahianyo, called on the public to assist them to arrest the culprits.
“The armed men in the process shot a customer who was later identified as Collins Dapaah Hayford aged 43. The victim was rushed to the Manhyia Hospital for treatment but was pronounced dead on arrival. His body has since been deposited at the Ebenezer Hospital Morgue pending an autopsy. Meanwhile, the police is picking some reliable leads that will help apprehend the perpetrators of this heinous crime. The command would like to inform the public through the media that all cases of crimes reported in the region are under investigation. Some are in court and others are pending to be sent to court anytime soon” he said.
ASP Godwin Ahianyo also disclosed that four suspected notorious armed robbers in the region have been arrested and remanded into police custody.
“The suspects are Mustapha Adams 37, Ibrahim Adamu 39, Aseidu Ona Alas L.ion 33, and Mohammed Abubakar, 33. The suspects are in police custody assisting with the Police investigation. It will be recalled that on Thursday 25th March, 2021, one Emmanuel Antwi aged 40 now deceased was robbed of Toyota Prado vehicle by three armed men,” he said.
Also, he says these suspects have been arrested in relation to other related robberies in the region.
“Investigation so far has revealed that the above-named suspects perpetrated that crime. Subsequent investigation has also established that these suspects are involved in many other robberies cases reported in the region” he said
Meanwhile, residents who live in Buokrom Estate say the level of insecurity in the area is worrying.
A troubled resident who spoke to Citi News said “almost every week there are armed robbers patrolling all over this place.”
Another resident said armed robbers “have been breaking into the containers here. By the time you will come in the next morning, you will realize that almost all of your goods are gone. We are afraid for our lives.”
“The Assembly Member should rather volunteer to bring the police if the government is not willing to bring the police around here. We the inhabitants will pay for it. We are pleading with the government to bring policemen here. There should even be a police checkpoint over here. If we don’t get police protection; we cannot feel safe.”

With the ever-changing face of retail business across the world, there have been calls for businesses in Ghana to accordingly adapt, especially with respect to e-commerce.
The Ashanti regional capital, Kumasi which is one of the fastest-growing cities in Africa has not fully taken advantage of the e-commerce space as many residents still go through traffic as part of their busy schedules in order to purchase items.
The residents can now heave a sigh of relief as a wholly-owned Ghanaian company has set up an e-commerce business centre at the Kumasi City Mall to relieve customers and business owners of the stress they go through on a regular basis. The company believes the new intervention will serve as an avenue to make the lives of both business owners and customers much easier.
The Chief Executive Officer of Hubtel limited, Alex Bram spoke to Citi Business News on the sidelines of the opening of the company’s office in Kumasi.
“Kumasi has been changing and growing very well. The population is great. The demographics here too is also great. We also think that the lifestyle of people in Kumasi is also a Hubtel lifestyle. People here like to send people on errands. For instance, when one is looking for food, he can say, can you get me that fufu from Patasi? Can you get me that Waakye from Nhyiaeso? What we are saying is that, we are adding Hubtel to the several options that people have when they need certain things. In fact, for the business community, we are trying to pitch to them on their posture of sales. There are a lot of shops in Kumasi. Many people open their shops and wait for customers to come and buy. What we are saying is that,z with Hubtel is that, you don’t have to do that. Hubtel can make it possible for people to make order online using the Hubtel app on their phones and we will deliver the items to the person”.
Mr. Alex Bram believes that making good use of the online platform (the Hubtel app) will help make the prices of items stable. “Our items are very affordable. In fact, we work with retailers on several things to make pricing very creative because most retailers, the reason some items are expensive is because, the thing doesn’t move as often as it should. With Hubtel, we open it up more and the thing moves more, the prices eventually come down”.

Industry leaders from academia and ICT ecosystem have praised Huawei’s ICT Academy and other talent cultivation initiatives of Huawei as a step in the right direction and critical for equipping the youth to be professionals while remaining globally competitive.
An Educationist and the Head of the Center for Professional Development at the Ghana Communications Technology University, Madam Araba Hackman Akanji, described the Huawei ICT Academy of which her University is an authorized Academy as a well-structured professional certification program that prepares students adequately for the job market.
She said, “The way the courses are designed and instructed is very practical, and I realize it engages the students in a lot of hands-on training, something most students at the University have given positive feedback on”.
She went on to mention how the Huawei ICT Academy creates an easy pathway for students to enter the job market.
According to her, the program is fast becoming the most popular Certification program on campus due to word-of-mouth recommendations from students who currently have opportunities working at various leading companies in the ICT industry in Ghana and beyond.
Speaking on the innovative and ubiquitous approach of the Huawei ICT Academy, Madam Araba Hackman Akanji was marvelled at how the program continued to attract students even during the heat of the COVID-19 pandemic when schools closed down.
“When most professional programs on campus became dormant during the pandemic, more and more students continued to register to take the Huawei ICT Academy program due to the Innovative Study at Home initiate which Huawei introduced for the students and instructors to be able to take the course irrespective of their location. The introduction of data incentives among other interesting packages saw our numbers rise and between 2020 and now, over 470 students have taken the course” she said.
On his part, the Chief Executive Officer of the Ghana Chamber of Technology and an ICT Policy and Strategy Specialist and Consultant, Mr. Derrydean Dadzie, was particularly impressed with the Huawei Seeds for the Future Program.
He mentioned that aside from building the capacity of participants, the Seeds for the Future trains participants to become problem solvers and also inspires entrepreneurship.
“What the program does is that it exposes the students to real-life experiences, asking them what problems can be solved? And how can you solve this problem? And how what you have learnt in the classroom [during the Seeds Program] can be applied to solve the problem? And I think that is very practical and impressive”.
He added that is an initiative that helps cultivate young talents, ensuring that the tech-savvy and change-resilient young people have the skills and mindsets needed to be competitive in the workplaces of the future.
Both Madam Akanji and Mr. Dadzie, made this known during the maiden edition of the ‘Huawei Day with Media’ which was held in Accra. News Editor for the Daily Graphic, Mr. Samuel Ablordepey, who was also present at the event was amazed by Huawei’s huge portfolio of innovative solutions and recounted his experience at the 2019 Huawei Connect event in China as an eye-opener.
“What I mostly knew about Huawei then was mainly their smartphones and devices as well as strides in the Telecoms, but going there I realized that it’s much bigger than what we see or hear. It’s a lot more, from Software to Hardware and in fact, when we talk about anything ICT or any solution in that regard, I realized that Huawei is the way to go, and bingo they have it all” He said.
The first edition of the ‘Huawei Day with the Media’ also included a virtual tour of the company’s ultramodern Darwin Exhibition Centre in Shenzhen, China, where participants were informed about how Huawei is employing advanced technology to make the world a better place through initiatives such as the Huawei #TECH4ALL, as well as the company’s contribution towards the fight against the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic.
The ‘Huawei Day with the Media’ was organized by Huawei Ghana as part of efforts to engage the media,  strengthen relationships, and share the company’s contributions towards building a digital economy while giving the media the opportunity to better understand operations on Huawei in Ghana.

The District Chief Executive (DCE) for Ada West, Adzoteye Lawer Akrofi, has denied ownership of the ambulance that was seen in a video, which has been widely circulated on social media, being loaded with bags of cement.
In an interview on Eyewitness News on Wednesday, the Head of Public Relations at the National Ambulance Service, Simmons Yussif Kewura, indicated that the ambulance in question belonged to the Sege Constituency and was procured under the ‘One Constituency One Ambulance’ Initiative.
However, speaking on the Citi Breakfast Show today, the Ada West DCE told host, Bernard Avle, that the ambulance designated to the Sege Constituency was at post on the said day, and hence, the one seen in the video could not possibly belong to his district capital.
“I have just one ambulance. I am stating categorically that my ambulance number is GV 677-19. So the question of GV 537-20 doesn’t come in at all. The claim that that ambulance belongs to [my district] is a lie.”
“I got it on the 18th of June 2020. The ambulance is currently in good shape. When the President launched the ambulances last year, there were about 307 of them, and we were mandated, as District Chief Executives, to find places for them. Mine was delivered on June 18, 2020.”
In a video that has gone viral on social media, a seemingly new ambulance, with registration number GV 537-20, is seen being loaded with bags of cement by some young men.
The video was recorded by a concerned citizen, who wished to remain anonymous, according to Citi News’ Central Regional Correspondent, Calvis Tetteh.
The development sparked a huge debate on social media, with many criticising the government for failing to ensure that the ambulance was being used for the purpose it was intended for.
The incident occurred on March 26, 2021, but the Ambulance Service’s attention was drawn to the development only when the video went viral on social media.
The Ambulance Service consequently dispatched some officers to look into the matter.


The nominee for Minister of State at the Finance Ministry, Charles Adu Boahen, has disclosed that the COVID-19 pandemic cost the country about GHS21 billion.
The nominee, who served as a deputy Finance Minister in President Akufo-Addo’s first term, made this known when he appeared before the Appointments Committee of Parliament today, Wednesday, June 2, 2021.
According to him, GHS18 billion of the said amount was funded through borrowing, with the remaining amount sourced from grants and the Stabilisation Fund.
“COVID-19 cost us [Ghana] about GHS21 billion. Of that amount, about GHS18 billion of it was funded through borrowing, and the rest came to us as grants, [along with] some monies from the Stabilisation Fund.”
When further pushed by the Minority Leader, Mr. Haruna Iddrisu as to what percentage that represents in GPD terms, Mr. Adu Boahene stated that it represents 13% of Ghana’s GPD.
Ghana’s debt crosses GHS300 billion mark as debt-to-GDP ratio drops to 70.2%
Ghana’s total public debt stock has increased once again according to new data released by the Bank of Ghana.
The debt stock which ended 2020 at GHS291.6 billion, saw about GHS13 billion being added in the first quarter of 2021.
This represents an increase of about 4 percent, and brings Ghana’s total public debt as of the end of March 2021 to GHS 304.6 billion.
The new debt figure brings Ghana’s debt to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) ratio to 70.2% as of the end of March 2021.
This is lower than the debt to GDP ratio of 76.1% recorded at the end of 2020 according to data from the Central Bank.
The reduced debt to GDP ratio despite an increase in the overall debt figure, can be attributed to the projected GDP figure of GHS433.6 billion for the year 2021.
The new GDP figure represents an increase of about 13% over the GDP figure for 2020 which stood at GHS383.3 billion.
A breakdown of the debt numbers shows that the component of the debt secured outside the country remained relatively stable in the first quarter even dropping marginally to GHS141 billion in March, from the GHS142.5 billion recorded in January and February of this year.
The external debt component as of the end of March 2021 made up 32.5 % of the total value of the economy which is projected to be about GHS434 billion for 2021.
On the other hand, the component of the debt secured locally increased steadily in the first 3 months of 2021. That is an increase of about GHS 14 billion from January to March this year, bringing total domestic debt to GHS163.6 billion at the end of the period under review, representing 37.7 per cent of the projected GDP for 2021.
The domestic component of the total public debt contains the financial sector resolution bond which was GHS15.2 billion as of the end of March 2021.


The Ghana Library Authority, the institution mandated by law to establish, equip, maintain and manage public libraries in Ghana, has emerged as the ‘Library of the Year’ at the London Book Fair (LBF) International Excellence Awards 2021. It competed against the Kenya National Library Services (Kenya) and Public Library “Fran Galovic” Koprivnica (Croatia) in the final shortlist.
The Authority was awarded for its outstanding commitment to using technology to support remote learning to promoting information skills, literacy and reading.
In a press release announcing the winners, the judges of the London Book Fair International Excellence award wrote, “It really struck us as an amazing story of transformation and an example of how library services tackle some of the most pressing issues confronting their users.
“From using technology to support remote learning to promoting information skills, literacy and reading, this is a great example of the difference a quality library can make.”
The Executive Director of the Ghana Library Authority, Mr. Hayford Siaw, in response, expressed gratitude to the LBF for the recognition and also to the government of Ghana led by Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo for the renewed commitment to public library service delivery in Ghana.
Mr Siaw also acknowledged the staff of the GhLA for their commitment and dedication in connecting Ghanaians to knowledge resources.
He further stated that “For us at the Ghana Library Authority, this recognition underscores the impact we have made in the last few years in transforming public library service to be responsive to the life-long learning needs of our citizens.”
“From working with Commonwealth of Learning to support over 30,000 Ghanaians enroll in its Read2skill programme, supporting the Ministry of Education and the Ghana Education Service with a Learning Management System for Basic education and enhancing our Digital Library with video tutorials, supported by UNICEF to deploy mobile library vans to transport books to homes of young people in the era of COVID-19, it is a mark of innovation and relentlessness on the part of the staff of GhLA to support the Ghanaian life- long learner”.
The London Book Fair International Excellence Awards is organized by the London Book Fair in partnership with the Publishers Association (United Kingdom) to celebrate publishing achievements across seven categories.
It recognizes organizations and individuals demonstrating notable originality, creativity, and innovation within the industry.
The six (6) additional recipients of the London Book Fair International Excellence Awards 2021 include;
1.	Findaway Voices (USA) – The Audiobook Publisher of the Year award
2.	Carturesti (Romania) – The Bookstore of the Year award
3.	Karadi Path Education Company (India) – The Educational Learning Resources Award
4.	EditoraTrinta Zero Nove (Mozambique) – The Literary Translation Initiative Award
5.	Nora Mercurio, SuhrkampVerlag (Germany) – The Rights Professional Award
6.	Hachette UK – Inclusivity in Publishing Award, supported by the Publishers Association
The panel of judges in their remark stated that they were amazed about the story of the transformation of library services.
“[It] really struck us as an amazing story of transformation and an example of how library services can tackle some of the most pressing social issues confronting their users. From using technology to support remote learning to promoting information skills, literacy and reading, this is a great example of the difference a quality library can make,” they stated.


The leadership of the Senior Staff Association of Universities of Ghana say they are considering intensifying their three-week-old strike to other departments under their umbrella.
The leadership of the Association, on Tuesday, met a delegation from the Ministry of Employment and Labour Relations to look into their demands for the payment of their outstanding Tier-2 pension contributions and improved conditions of service but that meeting ended inconclusively.
The industrial action commenced after the Association claimed the government had consistently failed to address their concerns.
Speaking to Citi News, the National President of the group, Zakariah Mohammed, says the government has failed to adequately address their concerns.
“We are not content with how the government has handled our issue so far, we are becoming more and more frustrated.”
“The next line of action is for us to meet with the National Executive Council to discuss the way forward. Mind you, we left out the security and the staff who work in the hospitals and clinics of the various campuses, among others. With the way things are going, agitations are getting higher and if care is not taken, we may add members with those other departments. It means that we are going to intensify the strike action, by involving other members who were exempted from the strike action,” he warned.
The association embarked on its current nationwide strike on Tuesday, May 18, 2021, over the failure of the government to pay their Tier 2 pension.
Among other things, they are asking for the payment of market premiums and non-basic allowances as well as the finalisation of negotiations for their conditions of service.
The Association previously held a strike in January, 2021, but its members returned to work in February after the National Labour Commission (NLC) secured a court injunction compelling them to resume their duties while negotiations with government continued.
 
Mr. Charles Adu Boahen, the Minister of State nominee at the Ministry of Finance, says he resigned from his company Black Star Advisors in 2017, and does not engage in their business dealings.
According to him, all other contrary claims are not true and should be disregarded.
NDC Member of Parliament for the Bolgatanga Central Constituency in the Upper East Region, Isaac Adongo, had asked the Appointments Committee to reject the nominee.
Mr. Adongo insisted that the nominee in his previous position as the Deputy Finance Minister granted an undue benefit to his company through fees and charges on bonds issued by the state in which the said company was advisors to the bonds.
“So the reason we are borrowing 60 billion, 70 billion, and 280 billion; is not because Ghana needs it, but because some people need the money. Ken Ofori-Atta and Charles Adu Boahen benefited from that money through the fees they get for their company. So I am calling on them as a matter of conscience to withdraw those companies immediately.”
“As for Charles Adu Boahen who is due for vetting, I want him to do the honourable thing and withdraw Black Star Brokerage before Wednesday. I want to assure them that this particular activity, I will not relent on it, and I am going to the extent of petitioning the IMF and the World Bank, I will also petition the International Investor community and I will petition CHRAJ to look into this. I will make their issuance of bonds a murky business in 2021, and I urge the Appointments Committee to reject his nomination for the interest of mother Ghana.”
But appearing before the vetting committee on Wednesday, June 2, 2021, Mr. Adu Boahen insisted that he does not meddle in the affairs of his company since he resigned in 2017.
“Mr. Chairman, as I mentioned earlier, I resigned from the board and management of Black Star Advisors in 2017. I have no role, and I do not participate in their business dealings.”


Education Minister, Dr. Yaw Osei Adutwum, has not taken lightly, comments by former Minister of Education, Prof. Naana Jane Opoku-Agyemang, which ostensibly put into question, the performance of Free Senior High School (SHS) graduates in the West Africa Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE).
The Minister said it is unfortunate for Prof. Opoku-Agyemang to make suggestions that demoralize the students and by extension denigrate the exams body – the West African Examination Council (WAEC), which conducted the exams across the sub-region.
Prof. Opoku-Agyemang, a former Education Minister in the NDC administration, who also was running -mate for the opposition National Democratic Congress (NDC) in the 2020 elections, has discredited the 2020 WASSCE results, suggesting that there was mass exam cheating by the students.
But in a reaction to the claims on Good Evening Ghana on Metro TV on Tuesday, Dr. Adutwum pleaded with his colleague to be mindful of her utterances, particularly on claims that she cannot substantiate.
“When she speaks, the world listens. I plead with the Hon. Minister [Naana Jane] that she should measure her words carefully when talking about WASSCE and WAEC”, he said.
“The students did so well and instead [of] commending them, you look at these young men and women and tell them that they cheated”
“WAEC has an algorithm to detect students who have cheated and catch them every year. What [Naana Jane] has taken for granted [is that], some students may not get scholarships to certain universities around the world because they are going to look at them and say they have cheated and don’t deserve to get the scholarship”.
What did Naana Jane say?
The former Education Minister, Prof. Opoku-Agyemang, in a media interaction, discredited the government’s much-touted unprecedented WASSCE results following the implementation of the Free SHS policy.
She doubted how the students were able to pass the exams in the wake of what she described as ineffective teaching and learning amidst alleged widespread leakage of the exam papers, asking Ghanaians not to celebrate it as a success.
“We heard of the leakage of the exams, we heard of invigilators being compromised, we heard many things, and we also saw the students come out and speak about, ‘this is not what we were told will happen’, now these students have As, and we are happy? It is up to us”, she pointed out.
But Dr. Adutwum says these assertions should be ignored because they are meant to score cheap political points to run down the New Patriotic Party’s (NPP) flagship program.
“This is not any personal attack against her. I am speaking to the facts.”
“Under her watch as the Minister of Education in 2015, 23.9% of the students obtained Al to C6 in Maths. In the midst of COVID-19, under Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, these students courageously sat for the exam and obtained a score of 66.05%.  The least she can do is commend the hard-working teachers and heads of this nation who supported these students through thick or thin because they did the impossible.”


Chief Technology Officer of IT Consortium, Ebow Anamoah-Mensah, has said, although Ghana is gradually becoming a “commonplace” for cashless transactions, it requires a few more years for it to be nationally adapted.
In his estimation, it will take Ghana just like any other African country almost two decades to fully operate a cashless economy.
“I am sure in the next 20 years, cash will be scarce in a lot of countries including Ghana, and I think Ghana is moving quite quickly towards that stage”, he said.
Mr. Anamoah-Mensah said this on the second day of the Citi Business Festival on Wednesday, June 2, 2021, on the Citi Breakfast Show.
He was speaking on the topic. ‘Cashless Economy with Opportunities in Business and Commerce‘.
“I believe we [Ghana] are at a stage that we are just taking off. Now that the government has joined the cashless society, there will be a lot more of this and fewer situations that one may need cash”, he indicated. Industry players have predicted that Ghana could move at a faster rate if it boosts the use of digital payment systems.
The government of Ghana has thus been aggressively promoting a digital and cash-lite economy. Over the years, the adoption and growth of digital technologies, especially digital payment solutions, have created opportunities for businesses and individuals alike.
But the IT consultant is disturbed that Ghana and other African countries “tend to leapfrog on technological advancement and not going through the same pathway that other advanced countries use.”
“We see this cashless society in its infancy in developing countries, and we are most likely to copy that. So in dealing with the advanced countries, we need to adapt what they are using”, he urged. The first week of the 2021 Citi Business Festival, is focusing on the digital economy – Building a cashless society and the opportunities for business and job creation.
There will also be virtual business fora live on Citi TV every Tuesday from 11:00 am to 1:00 pm. The radio on-air series is themed to correspond with the various virtual forums at 9:20 am every weekday.


The Minority Leader, Haruna Iddrisu, has implored the Speaker of Parliament, Alban Bagbin, to summon the Attorney General (AG) to the House to explain the legality of the government’s approach of burning excavators and other equipment in the fight against illegal mining.
The Minority Leader is of the view that burning excavators is illegal and that the AG, Godfred Dame, must explain to the House, the rationale behind such an approach.
Making the request in Parliament, Haruna Iddrisu said the fact that the President supports the approach does not make it right.
According to him, no law permitting the burning of seized excavators currently exists in Ghana’s constitution.
As such, he wants the AG summoned to Parliament “in accordance with Article 88 of the constitution, as the principal advisor to government, [to explain] why the President must not be held in check of being in breach of the laws of Ghana, and also provide some evidence to prove that burning of excavators is sanctioned, and I wait to see that.”
Haruna Iddrisu insists that he wants President Akufo-Addo to lead the country by the constitution
“We want him to lead the lawful Republic of Ghana in accordance with his oath to uphold the constitution and the laws of Ghana and to hold himself accountable to the laws of Ghana. No laws in Ghana today permit the burning of excavators,” he added.
The government recently renewed its commitment to ending the ‘galamsey’ menace with some enhanced measures, including the burning of excavators and other mining equipment by the members of the ‘Operation Halt’ taskforce.
However, a lot of people have expressed their dissatisfaction with the approach.
President Akufo-Addo, in response to the complaints, has asked those persons to go to court.
“I know there are some who believe that the ongoing exercise of ridding our water bodies and forest zones of harmful equipment and machinery is unlawful and, in some cases, harsh.”
“I strongly disagree, and I will advise those who take a contrary view to go to court to vindicate their position if they so wish. That is what the rule of law is all about,” Akufo-Addo said.
But the President has been reminded that the Minerals and Mining Act, Act 995, does not recommend the approach that has been adopted by the government.

The National Labour Commission (NLC), has secured an interlocutory injunction against the industrial action embarked upon by the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GAMLS) at the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital in the Ashanti Region.
The court order instructed members of the Association “to comply with the procedure provided under the Labour Act for resolving their dispute with their employer.” 
Members of the Chapter declared an indefinite strike that started on Thursday, 27th May 2021, following a one-week sit-down strike to protest the posting of two haematologists to the Laboratory Service Department of the hospital by management.
They have vowed to call off the strike only if the two are withdrawn from the hospital’s laboratory unit.
The Ashanti Regional branch of the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GAMLS), and others in some regions, have also declared an indefinite strike in solidarity with their colleagues at KATH.
They also insist that until the disputed appointments in question are reversed, they will not return to work.
The NLC had earlier ordered the lab scientists to immediately call off the strike and return to the negotiation table.
“The National Labour Commission hereby directs that with this intervention and in pursuance of section 161 of the Labour Act 2003 (Act 651), the Union should call off the ongoing strike and/or any further intended action immediately for the parties to appear before the Commission as scheduled,” the Commission had said in a statement.

The President of the Ghana Union of Traders Association (GUTA), Dr. Joseph Obeng is accusing banks in the country of running a cartel arrangement that keeps interest rates high despite reductions in the monetary policy rate.
According to him, the lack of responsiveness of banks, when it comes to reacting to changes in the policy rate, leaves much to be desired.
The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Bank of Ghana, for the first time since March 2020, reduced the policy rate to 13.5% after it was kept unchanged at 14.5 percent for six consecutive times.
Prior to the rate being reduced to 14.5% it had been maintained at 16% for some time.
The reduction in the rate saw average lending rates also drop from 22.38 percent in April 2020 to 20.93 percent in April 2021.
Speaking to Citi Business News on the recent development, the President of GUTA, Dr. Joseph Obeng, welcomed the lowering of the policy rate but charged the government to introduce a system that will compel banks to reduce their interest rates in a manner that’s commensurate with the drop in the policy rate.
“As a matter of fact, if the policy rate can go down even further it will be great. The most important thing, however, is for the banks to be responsive. I would say that the gap between the policy rate and interest rates in still high. The current system is a rip-off. I’m beginning to be convinced there is some kind of cartel arrangement between the banks because this shouldn’t be happening in a competitive environment.”
“So we will call on the Bank of Ghana or the government to find a way to introduce a base cap or make some compelling arrangements that will make the banks come along,” he added.

Effective Saturday, June 5, road transport fares will be increased by 13%.
The new prices affect all forms of transport including Inter-city (trotro), Intercity (long distance) and shared taxis.
In a press statement, the Ghana Private Roads Transport Union (GPRTU) revealed that the increase is to accommodate the increase in fuel prices announced in May 2021, after long negotiations with stakeholders.
“Upon consultations, government has assured us that it will continue with efforts to prevent a steep rise in input cost.
“Government had also assured as by a letter from the Ministry of Finance that the suspension of the quarterly income tax paid by owners of trotros and taxis will be extended to cover intercity commuter vehicles to reduce the operational cost. We, therefore, encourage government to keep to its commitment in this regard.” This comes after prices at the pumps in Ghana shot up by 12% due to the introduction of some taxes, increases in margins by the National Petroleum Authority, the industry, and price increases on the international market.
Following an agitation by citizens, the National Petroleum Authority rescinded its decision to increase the fuel margin to 17 pesewas per litre.
In a communique dated May 4, NPA revealed that “the 17 pesewas per litre increase in fuel margins previously announced by the NPA has been reduced to 9 pesewas per litre.”
Subsequently, GPRTU said they were in discussions with the government about the increase in transport fares but urged Ghanaians to expect a 10 to 15 per cent increase. In the press release, they urged transport operators to stick to the proposed increase.
“We request members, commuters and the general public to kindly cooperate for the successful implementation of the new fares,” they added. 

The Roads and Highway Ministry has refuted claims that road construction under the Akufo-Addo administration cost $2 million per kilometre.
The Chief Director of the Ministry, Dr D. D. Darku in a statement on Wednesday, June 2 stated that the incumbent government will not expend such a far-fetched amount on just one kilometer of road when it seeks to complete 6000 km by 2024. This, the statement said, will constitute the largest road project in Ghana’s history.
The statement therefore provided details of how much is spent per kilometre of road.
“Surface dressed cost $300,000- $9000,000 per km (depending on the number of seals and base material).
“Asphalt overlay costs $200,000 -$250,000. Interchanges cost $10,000000 – $55000000 per kilometer and reconstruction asphalt costs $1,200,000-1,400,000.” Dr Darku further denied assertions that his outfit has inadequate staff to properly supervise road projects across the country, “the Ghana Highway Authority has a total of 173 Engineers across the country, the Department of Urban Roads has 86 and Department of Feeder Roads has 143.”
“The total number of Engineers at the Ministry and its agencies is 406. This excludes engineers at the District Assemblies. For project supervision, the Ministry also engages the services of Consultants,” he added.
The Chief Director’s clarification was necessitated by reactions that followed Road Minister, Kwesi Amoako-Atta’s press briefing which focused on road projects being undertaken by the government.
At was at this press conference that Kwesi Amoako-Atta announced that 6,000 kilometres of roads out of the over 11,000 kilometres of programmed roads will be completed in President Akufo-Addo’s second term.
In view of that, the Road Ministry’s Chief Director has called on the citizenry to be supportive as well as hold the government accountable for the comprehensive development of the road and highways sector.

The Chief Executive Officer of NIMED Capital Limited, Abena Buachiwaa Brigidi, has encouraged women that they can have both a career and a stable family at the same time.
To her, it is out of place for women to think they have to sacrifice their family for their career or vice versa.
“I did not have to sacrifice my family just to pursue a career. I got to a point where I had to balance my career and family life. You need to have a life where you are actually balancing family and career and I normally tell the young ones or young ladies that you cannot sacrifice one for the other.
“You cannot say you want to sacrifice career over family or sacrifice family for your career. You’ve got to balance it, and that is what I did.”
Abena Buachiwaa, who balanced her career and tried to move up the organisational ladder as quickly as possible added, “I did all this having a stable relationship, getting married, having kids and training my kids. I did all this together and so balancing is the key here.”

n an interview with Y107.9FM’s Rev Erskine on the Y LeaderBoard Series, she, however, revealed that at a point in one’s life, “there are many times you will have to sacrifice work to be with family.”
Sharing a typical example, Abena Buachiwaa noted that she was recently overwhelmed with work and at the time her daughter was also not feeling well and had to make a choice between the two.
“There was so much I had to do, and I had also booked an important appointment that I really had to be present for. Here I was torn between going to the hospital and being with my daughter or honouring that appointment,” she said.
Even though she did not want to disappoint her client, she had to sacrifice the client for her daughter. The investment banker who has always chased after equalisation called a friend of hers after the incident and said, “Jack, I give up, I am no more talking about equalisation, all I am talking about now is equity because as a woman entrepreneur and female leader, there will always come a time where you need to sacrifice some major transactions for family duties.”
Although she still believes equalisation is great, she argues it is equally good to have equity on the table as well.

Defending champions of the MTN FA Cup, Asante Kotoko had no problems in the round of 64 dispatching BYFA 2-0.
The Porcupine Warriors did endure a tough first half and had to wait till the 51st minute before breaking the deadlock through a Fabio Gama penalty.
Nine minutes later, Mariano Barreto’s men doubled their lead through a curler by Emmanuel Keyekeh.
Kotoko held on to start their title defence on a strong note as they march on to the round of 32 stage after a comfortable victory at the Nana Gyamfi Park in Bekwai.
Hearts of Oak came into the Liberty game with a strong lineup as the club seeks to win the double this season. The Phobians started the match stronger taking the lead through Daniel Afriyie Barnieh.
Kwadwo Obeng Jnr doubled Hearts’ lead on the stroke of halftime to score in his third consecutive game.
A delicate chip by Barnieh sent Samuel Boadu’s men three up as they picked up a comfortable victory.
Out of form Medeama returned to winning ways through a solitary goal from Zakaria Mumuni in the first half against Eleven Wise. AshantiGold beat fellow Premier League side King Faisal by a sole goal scored by Gordon K Brokelyn at the Ohene Ameyaw park.
WAFA dismantled Akatsi All Stars 4-0 with goals coming from Sampson Agyapong, Marvin Owusu, Basit Issah and Emmanuel Agyemang.
Phar Rangers pulled one of the upsets of the competition so far beating Dreams FC 4-2 on penalties after the game ended 2-2 in regular time.
A Benjamin Boateng second half brace was enough to send Elmina Sharks past Metro Stars to the next round. Division One side Tema Youth thrashed Inter Allies beating the Premier League side 5-1.
Sky FC also brushed aside Premier League side Ebusua Dwarfs, winning 2-0.
Aduana Stars beat Eleven Wonders courtesy a goal from Isaac Kwain.
Berekum Chelsea were victorious against Bofoakwa Tano FC, beating them 2-1. 

An Accra Circuit Court on Wednesday convicted a 47-year-old woman for possessing Indian hemp.
Rita Atsufui Koffie admitted the offence and she was convicted on her own plea but sentence was deferred to Thursday.
The judge, Mrs Susana Eduful, had earlier ordered for a pregnancy test on Rita.
Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Mr Evans Kessie told the Court that Rita was a trader, living at Shukura near Dansoman.
He said upon a tip-off, the Police arrested Rita on September 9, 2020, at about 1600 hours with three buckets of the Indian hemp soaked in liquid, popularly known as “lacka” as well as quantity of the dried leaves.

The German Development Cooperation in Ghana (GIZ) has partnered with the Ghana Chamber of Technology to heighten Ghana’s Digital Transformation Agenda.
Ghana’s aim of advancing the agenda especially amidst the Covid-19 pandemic is expected to receive massive support from the German Development Cooperation in Ghana via a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Digital Transformation Center of GIZ and the Ghana Chamber of Technology (GCT).
The two parties met on Wednesday at the La Palm Royal Beach Hotel to sign the MoU to expedite Ghana’s digital transformation drive. In Africa, Ghana is largely considered the leader in the digital transformation agenda. Spanning from the establishment of Google’s first Africa Artificial Intelligence Lab in 2019 to Twitter’s quest to set up in Ghana this year, the country has gone several notches ahead amongst other African nations in attracting foreign tech giants. 
The country has chalked significant success in its digital transformation agenda in the last decade. Key milestones such as the digitalisation of the passport office, digital addressing system, paperless ports, mobile money operability, and many others have increased the productivity and growth of the Ghanaian economy.
GTC’s partnership with GIZ is to provide a huge opportunity for the country to leap frog in the provision of efficient public services such as health, education, revenue generation, creation of new jobs for the growing unemployed youth, protection of human rights and freedoms.
According to CEO of Ghana Chamber of Technologies, Dr. Augustina Odame, “the country’s digital transformation journey from the inception of mobile money to the widespread availability of digital payment across the country and the growing number of Ghanaians employed within the space is a wonderful opportunity of leveraging technology to democratise crucial services and opportunities to all Ghanaians, regardless of their geographic and demographic’’ She further indicated that the contribution of the Information and Communications Technology sector to Ghana’s GDP was estimated to be 9.8% in 2019. One key aspect of Ghana’s economy to have benefited from this digital transformation agenda is the Mobile Money Industry.
The high penetration of mobile money and increased digital payments in the country for productivity and growth of the Ghanaian economy. The Bank of Ghana last year reported that 38.5 million people have mobile money accounts while 17.1 million of these accounts are classified as active translating to about GH₵569 billion worth in transactions.
The 2020 total transactions represented about 84% growth from the value recorded in 2019. These figures demonstrates how the growth of our economy is gradually relying on digital structures in bringing meaningful changes to business and society at large. It is GIZ’s goal to strengthen Ghana’s Digitalization Agenda by building a strong partnership with the private sector, a good collaboration with stakeholders in Ghana from government, academia and civil society and innovative approaches.

The Minority Leader, Haruna Iddrisu, has said an official at the Jubilee House was arrested by the National Security officials few days ago for allegedly engaging in illegal mining popularly known as galamsey.
Although details are sketchy, the Tamale South legislator named one Damoah as the gentleman picked who has been picked by the security agency for investigation.
Speaking at an interactive session with the Parliamentary Press Corps on Wednesday, Mr Iddrisu observed that several other government officials are engaged in the illegal business since their party is in office.
He warned that government against any move to cover up his arrest. “I hear a gentleman was picked up some few days ago at Jubilee House; one Damoah. We [Minority] are following the case closely and nobody should make an attempt to cover-up what his doings have been in relating to his engagement or involvement in galamsey. “Now the President is fighting his own men. We are beginning to know the persons behind the illegal galamsey. They are all acting on the strengths that their government is in power,” he stated.
The Minority further tasked President Akufo-Addo and his appointees to handle the situation decisively in order to eradicate galamsey from the country and save the environment.
He also pledged that the Minority in Parliament would support government’s quest, should it be transparent and fair in all its dealings. 

A financial services firm, CSSL Enterprise, has been robbed of over ¢140,000 at Buokrom Estate Junction in Kumasi.
A staff of the company, Collins Dapaah, who sustained severe injuries from gunshots during the incident, has died.
The armed robbers held staff and clients of the non-bank financial institution hostage, as they ransacked their treasury. They bolted with proceeds from the day’s financial transactions. One of the robbers manned the entrance, as the other demanded money after shooting thrice into the roof of the building, said one of the workers. “We were attending to a customer when a fair tall man entered and held the customer. We thought they were about to fight. “But it turned out to be a robbery. He then commanded everyone to lie down, and he took all the money,” Charity narrated the incident amidst tears.
One other staff who sensed danger when the two men stepped into the premises, dashed to the washroom to place a phone call to a neighbour, Collins Dapaah, for help. 


The Kenyan authorities have arrested a Ghanaian national who is alleged to have fraudulently obtained $83,000 (£58,490) from a woman in a romance scam.
The police’s Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) said a female manager at Tala, a digital lender that issues small loans to Kenyans, met the Ghanaian called Victor Anane through an online dating site.
“The suspect… masquerades as a preacher, approaches innocent women looking for love and affection online, with promises of making their lives better before fraudulently obtaining money from them.”
The woman only became suspicious of Mr Anane when she visited his house in the capital, Nairobi, the police said.
“She was shocked to find paraphernalia associated with witchcraft and magical rituals. What was meant to be a romantic date turned ugly,” the DCI said, posting on Twitter bizarre photos of items allegedly linked to witchcraft recovered from Mr Anane’s house during a raid: The authorities also recovered fake currency and materials used to print fake money.
Security officials say some of the money given to the man was allegedly taken from Tala’s accounts.
The suspect, who has not commented on the allegations, is set to appear in court on charges of obtaining money by false pretences.

The Ghana National Association of Teachers (GNAT) has urged its members at Achimota School to obey the court ruling regarding the admission of the Rastafarian students.
According to the Association’s General Secretary Thomas Musa, “this ruling will not affect teacher-student relationship” if handled in the right manner. his comes after the Governing Board of the Achimota School announced its decision to appeal the ruling by the Human Right Division of the Accra High Court, ordering it to admit the two teenagers.
The Rastafarian students, Tyrone Iras Marhguy and Oheneba Kwaku Nkrabea dragged the Achimota School Board of Governors, the Minister of Education, Ghana Education Service, and the Attorney General to court for refusing to enrol them. Achimota School insisted that they comply with the School’s regulations by shaving their dreadlocks.
The ruling that went against the school authorities delivered by Justice Gifty Agyei was received with displeasure, triggering measures to appeal the verdict, per a June 1 communiqué. But speaking on PM Express, Thomas Musa explained that tutors in the institution concerned must take the directive in good faith and pursue their mandate of delivering quality education.
“As professionals, we will behave accordingly and ensure that the best comes out of the children that we teach because we are professionals,” he said on Tuesday.
The GNAT General Secretary further advised all stakeholder to carefully peruse the full details of the court ruling to appreciate the ramification on the broader education sector.
Meanwhile, Executive Director of Child Rights International, Bright Appiah believes the ruling ordering Achimota School to admit two Rastafarian students is still in force despite the institution’s decision to contest it. “Once a ruling has been given, all the things that are required for the fulfilment of that ruling, for me, should continue and then we would ensure that the lawyer for Tyrone would enforce that and then whatever we need to ensure that their fundamental rights are protected, we will also go ahead and do that,” he said. 

Defence Minister, Dominic Nitiwul has refuted assertions that military officials deployed to stop illegal mining have confiscated gold from galamsey sites.
Speaking at a press briefing on Wednesday, June 2, he revealed that 592 items including 24 excavators, 341 chanfang machines as well as 123 water pumping machines have been seized and destroyed. However, the alleged seizing of gold is untrue.
“I have been hearing people forcing the Armed Forces to accept that they have seized things that they have not seized. The Armed Forces have not seized any gold. If they have seized any gold they will declare it. It is not possible for 420 officers and men to hide anything they have seized, it is simply not possible.”
His comment comes as a response to the ongoing speculation by some Ghanaians insisting that aside military officials unjustly destroying excavators and other mining equipment of miners, pieces of gold found on the site are seized.
Reacting to that, Dominic Nitiwul noted that these military officials are fully briefed and complying with the rules of engagement laid down by the incumbent government, therefore, any item confiscated or destroyed is recorded and made known to the general public. He is of the view that no officer of the Armed Forces, “will risk his carrier and the livelihood of his family because he wants to pick an ounce of gold and hide it. It is not possible. If they have seized gold I would have stated it. They haven’t seized any gold that is why I did not state it.”
“The day they will find a quantity of gold or even small pieces of gold I will say it but for now they have not we have not seized anything like that that is why I have not given an update on that particular one” he assured.  


Chief Whip of the New Patriotic Party Caucus in Parliament, Frank Annoh-Dompreh, who is also a member of the Pan-African Parliament (PAP), the legislative body of the African Union, has called for calm following a row that ensued during the election of leadership for the continental body.
Tensions were high during the fourth ordinary session of the Fifth Parliament of the Pan African Parliament held in Johannesburg, South Africa to find a replacement for the incumbent President, Cameroonian Roger Nkodo Dang.
Parliamentarians were infuriated by an announcement in the House that the elections would be postponed because a staff member had tested positive for Covid-19. According to them, this was just a ruse aimed at extending the term of office of Roger Nkodo Dang
This resulted in heated exchanges among the Parliamentarians, with one of South Africa’s representatives, Economic Freedom Fighters’ Leader, Julius Malema, threatening to “kill” a fellow Parliamentarian. Commenting on the chaos created on the floor of the House, Frank Annoh-Dompreh said the behaviour of his colleagues was unbecoming of them and called for reasoning to prevail.
He said, “if we don’t make reasoning prevail in this issue, we will not have a justification for our trip paid by our member countries to come here and engage with these exchanges, it will not help us.
“Various caucuses have taken entrenched positions so people want to make sense, people are speaking logic, people are quoting protocols that exist that is binding, and yet nobody listens.
“We cannot continue on this lane forever, we have to make sense. We are thinking beings,” he pleaded with his colleague Parliamentarians. He added that, “I see very experienced senior people in the chamber that is why we have to fall on such experiential knowledge and logic for us not to be caught in this quagmire of confusion”.
He later called for the setting up of an interim leadership committee to steer the affairs of the continental body while preparations are made for the general elections.
Meanwhile, Frank Annoh Dompreh has been nominated to Chair the Permanent Committee of Rural Economy, Agriculture, Natural Resources and Environment of the Pan – African Parliament. 


Veteran Ghanaian actress, Akofa Edjeani, says it is about time Ghanaians and Africa as a whole start telling their own stories through movies.
According to her, Africans have good stories that needs to be highlighted for the global market.
Speaking at the launch of the Mime Africa Awards, Akofa Edjeani explained that the only reason why the movie industry is lagging behind is because of a lack of investors.
However, if these African stories are championed, it could attract a lot more investors who will also sell the movie in the international market, the Aloe Vera actress said.
At the event, she lauded movie directors who strive through the odds to shoot movies. Speaking about the Mime Africa Awards, Akofa Edjeani said the initiative will push movie producers to compete for excellence because low-budgeted movies with no impact will hardly get nominated.
She said Africans have the expertise, the best weather and content creators, hence the only thing left are investors to fund projects.
She further advised movie producers to copyright their works at National Film Authority to avoid infringements that will go a long way to affect them. 

British Airways has reverted to Heathrow Airport for its Accra London-Accra flights, for now.
Sources close to Joy Business say the decision is due to a drop in traffic levels for winter as the UK continues to have quarantines and ‘red lists’.
In this regard, British Airways had to maintain a certain level of service at the Heathrow airport to keep the slots.
The intent to revert to Heathrow is expected to be finalized by July 2021 as that is the winter slot deadline. In January 2021, Ghana government rejected the decision by British Airways to switch the London-Accra-London route from Heathrow to Gatwick Airport.
In a memo, it said the airline had already made its decision known without much explanation.
According to the government, British Airways went ahead with the move without any consultation.
“At the said meeting, the BA team promised to provide further information and data analysis to support it reason for the changes of its services from London-Heathrow-Airport to London-Gatwick-Airport and to enable the Government of Ghana to take a final position on the matter. The BA team is yet to provide any information as promised,” excerpts of the statement revealed.

The Supreme Court has rejected a ¢1.27 billion judgment debt claim from the state by NDK Financial Services.
The apex court rather awarded an amount of ¢14,689 as judgment debt to NDK Financial Service.
This has enabled the state to save some huge amount of money.
Presided over by Chief Justice, Justice Kwesi Anin Yeboah, a five-member panel of the Supreme Court asked the state to pay interest at the prevailing rate from November 28, 2014, to the date of payment to NDK.
The panel included Justice Jones Dotse, Justice Paul Baffoe-Bonnie, Justice Nene Amegatcher and Justice Sule Gbedegbe (retired) said. Meanwhile, the full details of the court proceedings, according to the Chief Justice, would be ready on or before June 4, 2021. Accounting firm, PwC, was earlier appointed to establish the veracity of the over ¢1.2 billion claims made by NDK Financial Services Limited against the government through the Ministry of Energy.
The state represented by the Attorney-General and the private firm was then ordered by the court to prepare legal accounts for the auditing firm to work with. The Supreme Court’s order followed an application by the AG, maintaining that the state had fulfilled all financial obligations to NDK with regard to certain payments and interests based on the court’s order.
In March 2019, when the parties appeared before the court, then-Deputy Attorney General, Godfred Yeboah Dame told the court that as far as the government is concerned, it has already complied with the judgment of the Supreme Court, but NDK continued to  make substantiated’ claims for more money.
According to him, “NDK through a process of categorizing the judgment debt into ‘ascertained’ and ‘unascertained’ parts, has been persistently making claims for humongous sums from the applicant herein, albeit totally unjustified.”
Mr Dame argued that “in the view of the state implies that the sum of ¢867,441.5 plus interest at the agreed rate of 6.5% per month calculated at the close of each day and payable at the end of every month from April 1, 2009, at the end of every month from April 1, 2009, till the date of final payment”. But, counsel for NDK, Alfred Bannerman Williams, kicked against the application.
According to him, it “seeks to truncate the execution of the court’s order.”
He also challenged the ‘inherent jurisdiction of the Supreme Court based on which the AG had filed the application. 

We do not oppose unitization; we working with government, partners – Eni, Vitol
Oil firms, Eni and Vitol say they do not oppose unitization but rather working with the Ministry of Energy, the Petroleum Commission and the Ghana National Petroleum Corporation to find a mutually acceptable solution to enable Ghana capitalize on the Afina discovery.
In a statement, Eni said it has leverage on expertise in unitization, based on negotiation and execution of more than 130 unitization and pre-unitization agreements around the world including Australia, Algeria, Angola, USA, Croatia, Italy, Mozambique, Nigeria, Norway.
“Many unreliable and ungrounded data are circulating, which risk confusing the public. Eni is trying to find out if there is a viable solution that could be beneficial to all parties. The timing for finding a viable solution is driven by the goodwill of the parties to share data and cooperate”, the statement further said.
“We have recently been able to work on the data thanks to the intervention of the Ministry of Energy and delivered our analysis in the direction of finding a viable solution regarding the potential optimization of the recovery of oil reserves”, it added. Continuing, the oil firm said unitization is appropriate when a hydrocarbon accumulation straddles a contract area boundary or hydrocarbons from one contract area migrate into the other contract area or hydrocarbons are commercially producible on both sides of the contract area boundary.
“In principle we are not opposed to unitization, but this needs to follow an appropriate, shared work programme and evaluation process to assess the elements listed above before taking decisions in the interest of all parties. This entails an appraisal programme of the Afina area including (but not limited to) production and interference tests in order to understand the potential benefit that a unitization of the Sankofa field and the Afina discovery could deliver.”
In any case, the statement explained that parties to a unitization agreement have to contribute to the costs and liabilities deriving from the development and production of hydrocarbons, related facilities, and other expenses, adding “in order to have a right to the hydrocarbons produced and in proceeds from the production, each party must first pay its share of the costs of producing hydrocarbons from the unitized field.”
“We are confident that the analysis and the resulting report will allow the parties to progress discussions toward an agreeable, commercial solution of the matter”, it added. 

We all look forward to escaping our boring lives and traveling to new, exciting places – and with the Covid-19 vaccine, we finally can.
Whether you take a short, local trip or a major vacation to another country, travel can help you relax. Here are four reasons why traveling makes you happy:
Travel reduces stress
Our daily lives are full of stressful situations, so taking the time to get away is the perfect way to clear your head. When we travel, we can easily forget about our stressors and recharge. We also tend to remember the good parts of our travels and forget the stressful parts in the long term, so travel makes us feel warm and fuzzy inside.
Travel makes you more resilient
Visiting new places can be very exciting, but it can also be a bit intimidating, which takes you out of your comfort zone and forces you to try new things. Exploring a foreign country is fun, but you also have to deal with the language barrier, choosing from a variety of ways to get around, making sure you have an international driving permit, and experiencing new foods and people, which will ultimately make you a tougher person in the long run. Traveling builds resilience, and resilient people are typically happier.
Travel lets you think about your life
When you travel, you have plenty of time to think about whether or not you’re truly happy with your life. If you discover new interests when you’re away from home or realize that you need to make some life changes, you’ll feel motivated to build a better life when you arrive home.
Travel can strengthen your relationships
If you travel with your partner, you will quickly learn how you each communicate and how you can improve your relationship. You may also find yourself bonding with your significant other more than usual and connecting with them on a much deeper level. Just the act of planning a trip together with your partner can bring you closer than you were before – and make you happy. 
When you feel stressed or “down,” traveling can make you happier and help you improve your life in so many ways. So what are you waiting for? As soon as it’s safe in your area, plan a trip with your family, friends, or partner, and enjoy your new experiences!


Managing Director of GCB Bank, John Kofi Adomakoh is promising a leadership that will transform the bank as the dominant player in the Ghanaian banking industry.
 “We have what it takes and we have the capacity; it requires leadership and that is the leadership I seek to bring through GCB Bank to drive this agenda.  Over and above that, I think we need to reposition ourselves [GCB Bank} as to how we select some government initiatives and see how we implement them, how we support government to implement some of their initiatives; around manufacturing, value addition, exports driven market. I think this is the role a bank like GCB must lead, Mr. Adomakoh told Joy Business Odelia Ntiamoah in an exclusive interview.
To this end, Mr. Adomakoh said “we are drawing on the bank’s relationship internally and partnerships and also externally with international finance institutions and with capacity building agencies to help drive this agenda. With support from government, we are pulling all of these agencies together to come up with a model that works, that is transparent, that has the right corporate governance and that will seek to see the private sector growing.”
He further said Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) should be harnessed and supported to graduate into large corporates, whilst the large corporates should dominate the West African market and ultimately Africa. The bank’s strategy going forward hinges on three pillars.
The pillars are; Revenue Growth and Profitability, Operational Resilience as well as Talent and Culture.
Mr. Adomakoh said the strategy is due to the constantly changing business environment and disruptions across many fronts. This calls for the business strategy to be relevant and well-positioned to proactively meet the needs and expectations of its clients, a decision that will generate sustainable profits and returns.
“These are the three focal areas our strategy is built on. More importantly, as a bank…you must know that GCB is not just a bank, we are a national bank, we are a catalyst for development in this country. If you look beyond our numbers, if you look at the performance of 2020 and you look beyond the financials, you will see the contribution we have made to this nation through socio economic development- and we see ourselves as a catalyst to that.” Mr. Adomakoh said his outfit is poised to reposition itself as the most dominant bank in the country to deliver commitment in service, in value to customers, to grow indigenous Ghanaian businesses.
“We need to spend time developing our private sector and and business community. We need to develop not only providing them with financing but developed them with capacity and governance etc. No country has developed significantly without the development of the private sector and it is only banks like GCB that have the capacity to develop the Ghanaian private sector”, he added.
GCB to revolutionize digital banking
The Managing Director said GCB Bank will strategize to become the dominant digital banking player in the country, commending the past administration for the work done in developing technology. “Management, staff, the board over the last years have invested heavily a lot in technology. They have develop innovations and they have done quite a lot in terms of that. I think our clients have realized that over the last few years, in terms of technology, GCB Bank is transforming in getting into the digital space. GCB is moving from the traditional bank into a more contemporary.”
“And I think that the investment the bank has made over the last couple of years has been worthy. This digitization journey takes some time, I know where GCB is coming from. But I think we are on the right track, I think we are well pluck into the journey; we have invested in automating our front office, we invested heavily in our back house, we’ve tried to develop digital platforms to our customers so they can work from home, our customers can access the bank from anywhere.”
He concluded saying “the covid-19 pandemic was a real test and I’m happy to say the bank really excelled in terms of using the digital platforms. I think it is a journey, I don’t think we are there yet, but I think we are on the right track.”
The vision of GCB Bank is “to be the leading bank in all our markets”, whilst its mission is to provide first class banking solutions for our customers and value for all stakeholders.


The Ellembelle District Census Officer, Mr Isaac Polley, has expressed worry over how a section of the public was “playing politics” with the census exercise and called for a stop to the practice.
He said it was a national exercise and field officers were selected based on merit and not on political affiliation.
Mr Polley was speaking at the Ghana Statistical Service (GSS) 10-day intensive training workshop for potential field officers in the Ellembelle District of the Western Region.
He said the primary purpose of the training was to help participants to know the concepts and definitions of the Census, as well as their duties and responsibilities as field officers for the enumeration.
The GSS is training 280 persons out of which 160 would be selected as field officers to enumerate structures and residents of the District.
Mr Polley said the training would adopt a participant-centred approach, which involved lectures, video presentations, face-to-face interactions, mock interviews, assessment and field practice.
He said small group discussions using English and local languages would be used to ensure that concepts, definitions and procedures for collecting data were well understood.
It is also expected that each participant would be able to interpret and use an Enumeration Area (EA) Chart, carry out listing of structures and complete a listing form.
They would also be taught how to enumerate a household population, institutional population and floating population using the CAPI system.
Mr Polley said each trainee had been given a hard copy of the Field Officer’s Manual, questionnaire and tablet among other things for the training.
“This is a national exercise and for the next few days we will require you to sacrifice your time and your energy. Despite the full-time requirements, we hope that you will find time outside of the training to reflect on what you are being taught here”, he said.
The listing of structures is slated for June 13, 2021 across the country with census Night being June 27, 2021.
The enumeration of persons in households and long-stay institutions would be enumerated from 28th June to 11th July, 2021.

Obuasi-based All Feminine NGO, Self-Love Foundation, is backing ongoing calls for the government to scrap taxes on imported sanitary pads.
President of the NGO, Hillary Ekuoba Gyasi believes the removal will make them affordable to teenagers especially from less privileged homes and deprived communities.
She made this call on the sidelines of a relationship seminar organized by the Students Chaplaincy Council of the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Obuasi campus, where she was a Guest speaker.
It comes after the gender minister in a solidarity message on the commemoration of the 2021 Menstrual Hygiene Day stated her intent to accelerate the process to eliminate tax on sanitary pads. Sanitary towels are not luxury items. But stakeholders say taxes levied on the products claws back on the gains that the country has made in promoting girl child education. It also risks negating the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals.
Leadership of the association are worried menstruation is the major contributing factor to school absenteeism and poor academic performance among school girls. 
On average, a girl will have 13 menstruation circles a year. Two pads may be used for a flow. This means that between 13 to 16 sanitary pads may be needed per year.
Officials of the Self-Love Foundation therefore donated about 1000 menstrual caps to students in the municipality.

The Foundation observes that continuous challenge girls face to access accurate information on how to observe menstrual hygiene in addition to high cost of menstrual pads, as factors impeding adherence to menstrual hygiene.
She added “this is where Self Love Foundation comes in. At the moment we are partnering another NGO called ‘ Couldyou? to provide Menstrual caps; a small cup inserted in the woman to collect blood. These will be given out for free. The menstrual cup be used for the monthly menstrual cycle for a maximum of 10 years”.
Meanwhile, the association hopes to foster good relationships with the municipality to enable them to empower and educate more teenagers.
Vice President of Self Love Foundation who is a midwife of the AGA Health Foundation, Sally Osei Tieku, bemoaned the increasing rate of stigmatization against girls during menstruation periods. Miss Tieku describing the situation as worrying, said the misconceptions surrounding menstruation have resulted in most women developing low self esteem.
She advised that men support women during menstruation.
“Now most girls absent themselves from school during the period of menstruation. This is because of the embarrassment and pain they go through during this period”.
Miss Tieku revealed that the NGO is working assiduously in educating girls on how to prepare for menstruation, how to go through menstrual hygiene and how to properly dispose off the waste.
Family Life Counsellor, Rev. Vincent Akwaa, bewailed the recent increase in reported cases of broken homes; a phenomenon he blamed on the reason that most people marry out of pressure.
He added, “if you are forced to marry or you force yourself to marry, you might not enjoy a successful marriage life because the love might not be there”.
Rev. Akwaa also attributed the disturbing situation which has negative consequences on children to lack of endurance and the fighting spirit on the part of couples to protect their marriage or relationship despite the odds.


Six Chinese nationals, arrested for engaging in illegal mining (galamsey) at Asankragua in the Western Region, have been admitted to bail by an Accra High Court.
They are: Chen Guibin, Yao Zengcan, Lu Xiaobin, Wu Xiaobin, Cheng Churoung, and Xue Lianhua.
They have, however, not been able to execute the bail bond.
On Friday, May 14, this year, the Kaneshie District Court remanded the accused into Police custody but they applied for bail at the High Court.
The prosecution, led by Inspector Richard Amoah, prayed the District Court for a date to enable them to prepare. The Court, presided over by Ms Rosemond Agyiri, adjourned the matter to July 1.
The accused persons are being held on six counts of possession of firearms without lawful excuse.
The facts, as narrated by prosecution, are that Intelligence Agencies picked up information sometime in April, this year, that the accused persons, armed with weapons, were illegally mining at Asankragua in the Western Region.
The prosecution said a team of officers in plain clothes and uniform, were dispatched to the scene to ascertain the facts.
It said the team arrived at Asankragua and proceeded to Resort Holyday Hotel and Xin Di Hotel and arrested them.
Preliminary investigations had established that the accused were into buying, selling and refinery of gold without authority, according to the prosecution.
It said the accused persons armed their employees with guns to protect their unlawful activities.
Prosecution said during the arrest, six pump action guns and cash of GHC1,292,180, sandy substances suspected to be gold dust, a yellow bar suspected to be a gold bar, and liquid substances suspected to be mercury, were found.
A suspected armed robber in handcuff has escaped from Police custody at Kyebi in the Eastern region.
Starr News has gathered from a reliable source in Kyebi that the suspect Ebenezer Gyimah alias Peace was arrested by a team of Anti Armed Robbery squad and Personnel from CID Headquarters on June 24,2021 for his alleged involvement in many robberies in both Abuakwa North and South Municipalities.
The suspect was escorted to the Kyebi Zongo for a search while in handcuff but managed to escape .
A day later, the Kyebi Police also arrested another suspected robber identified as
Musa Kamara ,26, who was on Police wanted list at his hideout in Kibi Zongo on June 25,2021.
He also attempted to escape but was shot in the left knee and over-powered by Police.
The victim was rushed to the Kyebi government hospital where he is on admission under police guard.
The two suspects are reported to be part of notorious robbery gang terrorising residents in Kibi, Akyem Tafo, Osiem, Anyinasin and its environs.
At least 10 robbery attacks were recorded in the two Municipalities within three months.
The recent attack by the robbers on June 6,2021 resulted in the death of a woman shot by the gang on Akyem Ettukrom to Bunso stretch of the Koforidua to Bunso Highway.
Two suspects – Haruna Amadu, 25 , and Joseph Nyira, 25 were however arrested few hours after the incident.
Two unregistered single barrel shot guns, one machete, cash the sum of GhC257.00, one itel screen touch mobile phone, three neck bags containing two voter ID cards belonging to two of the victims, assorted mobile sim cards belonging to victims and a black student bag containing shirts of the suspects were retrieved.
On May 24,2021 one person was shot during a similar highway robbery attack on Koforidua to Akyem Kukurantumi road in the Eastern region.
The robbers mounted roadblock about 4:30am at Barfuor Nkwanta near Sorkode Dwaso junction stretch of the road where Police mostly conduct checks on commuting vehicles
About 20 vehicles were alleged robbed by the armed robbers who made away with total of about Ghc50,000, according to a victim.
On Wednesday April 28,2021 ,the robbers attacked a Guest House and a gas filling station at Akyem Kukurantumi about 8:00pm amidst firing of gunshots, they also broke into a restaurant of the guest house,caused damage to the doors and took away Ghc137 from the gas filling station office.
They also took away a single barreled gun which was placed against a wall by the night security man who took to his heels during the robbery operation.
No casualties were recorded.
Seven empty BB cartridges, one live BB cartridge and three wads were retrieved at the scene.
The robbers escaped in dark saloon car w/o plated number.
The robbery happened barely three weeks after a similar fuel robbery led to the death of a 32-year-old Nuhu Yashawu at Akyem Osiem a nearby community.
One person also sustained gunshot wounds in the robbery incident which occured on Monday, April 5,2021 at about 7:20pm where four men armed with three pump action guns and a knife attacked Goodness Energy Filling station in the community.
The robbers absconded with unknown amount being the night sales of the fuel station.
The robbers also took away a Motorola phone belonging to the night security man Adamu Zakari ,30 .
Police retrieved five (5) empty cartridges at the scene.
Deputy Education Minister-designate and Member of Parliament for Assin South Rev. John Ntim Fordjour has assured teachers their welfare concerns are a priority to government.
According to him, plans are underway to launch a Teacher Welfare App to promptly address teachers’ welfare grievances.
The deputy minister-designate argues welfare of teachers is a major concern to government and assured all outstanding issues relative to teacher upgrading, recent promotion challenges, allowances and other concerns would be tackled with urgency required.
As a measure to holistically deal with concerns of teachers, Rev. Fordjour has disclosed a deployment of case managers to every region for timeous resolution of the concerns of teachers as part of efforts to improve their conditions of living.
The app, an initiative of the Minister for Education Dr. Yaw Osei Adutwum, is expected to help mitigate to a large extent, the many challenges relating to the welfare and management of teachers.
Speaking to the media at the 90th-anniversary celebration of the Ghana National Association of Teachers (GNAT) in Accra where he represented the sector minister, John Ntim Fordjour charged the teacher unions to have confidence in the ability of government to find solutions to the current challenges in the sector.
The occasion which was also used as an investment forum was on the theme: “Beyond Teachers’ Fund; Making the Teacher Economically Sound.”
Addressing the leadership and members of GNAT, he intimated that teachers across the country have contributed immensely to the socio-economic development of the nation. He reiterated government’s commitment to timeously address teacher welfare concerns.
He expressed delight at the judicious and productive initiatives undertaken by GNAT in their bid to improve the lots of its members. He particularly commended the business exploits of GNAT including the acquisition of majority shares in Unique Insurance and the Sweden Ghana Medical Centre. He also commended the GNAT for its investments in real estate and the rolling out of a housing scheme for members.
Rev. Ntim Fordjour assured teachers that the Ministry of Education will in due course make available 280,000 laptops to teachers on cost-sharing basis to equip them deliver more effectively.
He called on all teachers across the length and breath of the country to join hands with the Ministry of Education to build a world-class education system.
A 56-year-old fake Medical Doctor and her 36-year-old daughter have been arrested by Central Regional Police command at Assin Adedeamtem in the Assin South District of the Central region.
Speaking to EIB Network’s Central Regional Correspondent Yaw Boagyan, the Regional Police deputy PRO Sgt. Evans Isaac Entie said on July 23, 2021, at about 9:30 am, a team from the Complaints and Investigative Unit of the Ghana Medical and Dental Council from Accra, with a team of police personnel from the Assin Adadientem, acting upon information led to the arrest of 56-year-old suspect Samuel Odartei, an alleged quack doctor who had been operating for over five years from his residence at Assin Adadientem.
The team upon arrival chanced on his daughter, a 36-year-old suspect Alberta Lanuekor in a pair of gloves busily dressing a patient’s wound, whilst other patients waited to be attended to.
The two were arrested and escorted to the police station with a variety of operating items including prescriptive and over-the-counter medicines.
An investigation by EIB Network’s Central Regional Correspondent Yaw Boagyan revealed that that the two fake Doctors were operating without a license.
According to information, several illegal abortions had been done at their premises which has led to deaths in some cases.
Both suspects are in police custody assisting with investigations.
Four people have been swept away by floodwater at Bomso in the Oforikrom Municipality of the Ashanti region after a heavy downpour on Thursday 24th June 2021.
The assembly member for the Bomso electoral area Isaac Appiah who confirmed the unfortunate development said, a search team will be deployed on Friday to find the missing people.
Kumasi, the capital of Ashanti region has for the past two days witnessed serious flood disasters destroying properties worth millions of Ghana cedis.
The Kumasi Kejetia Market equally had its share of the flood on Wednesday where several shops in the new market flooded destroying goods.
The mayor of Kumasi Osei Asibey Antwi who is on sick leave told Starr FM’s Ashanti regional Correspondent Isaac Justice Bediako that the KMA technical team will hold an emergency meeting on the flooding development in Kumasi.
“This morning the assembly technical and the planning committee will hold an emergency meeting on the development. Since my life in Kumasi, I have [not] seen the city flooding like this before. Currently, we need to put together a serious comprehensive plan, our gutters are too small to carry the floodwaters,” he said.
He added that the committee after the meeting will tour the affected areas to look at how best the assembly can assist the victims and also look at the immediate measures the assembly can put in place.
Some residents of the Effia-Kwesimintsim Municipality and the Sekondi Takoradi Metropolis have expressed fears over what they say is the increasing spate of robberies in the area.
It follows the mob arrest of two out of three suspected robbers at Tanokrom, a suburb of the Effia-Kwesimintsim Municipality after the suspects on a speeding motorbike snatched a bag containing an undisclosed amount of money from a lady around the ‘God is Love chop bar’ area.
Luck, however, eluded them after they were given a hot chase and later apprehended close to the Takoradi Mall but one managed to escape in the process and is currently at large.
Bystanders who witnessed the incident reportedky handed the robbers severe beatings before they were handed over to the police. The victim was lucky to have had been given her valuables.
Last weekend, residents of Anaji SSNIT flats had to sacrifice their sleep as a gang of motor riders took over the area to display their riding skills till the morning.
Again on Monday morning June 21, three suspects on a motorbike were captured on CCTV camera attempting to break into a popular pub at Anaji Westline Back in the Sekondi-Takoradi Metropolis.  The Assemblymember of the Amanful West electoral and Takoradi Constituency Chairman of the ruling New Patriotic Party (NPP) Prince Kojo Arthur has for the umpteenth time complained about how the riders are endangering the lives of people.
He said several reports to the police about the criminal activities of the motor riders have all not received favorable responses.
Nelson Roland, a robbery victim sharing his ordeal said a motor rider rammed into his back bumper while in traffic and when he decided to step outside the car to check the extent of damage, he returned to realize his iPhone 12 and other valuables on the front seat of his car had been stolen within a spate of two minutes.
Some market women and traders at the Koforidua Central market who were customers of defunct Fanteakwa Rural Bank have resurfaced with fresh agitations over their locked-up savings.
The agitating victims have called on President Akufo-Addo and the Speaker of Parliament, Alban Bagbin as well as the Bank of Ghana to help them retrieve their monies.
Fanteakwa Rural Bank owned by the incumbent MP for Fanteakwa North Amankwah Asiamah was established in the year 2004 but collapsed in 2012.
The Bank had its headquarters at Begoro and branches in Koforidua, Osiem, Suhum, Anyinam, and other parts of the region.
It is estimated that over 1,000 customers had their funds locked up.
The victims are mostly farmers, traders, drivers, teachers, fetish priests, small-scale miners, and small-scale enterprises.
The locked-up funds unleashed hardship on the victims some of whom died as a result while affected small scale enterprises  collapsed
Most of the customers had between five hundred Ghana cedis (GHS500.00) and twenty-seven thousand Ghana cedis (GHS27,000.00) locked up in the collapsed bank.
Many demonstrations were staged particularly before the 2016 election by the victims to exert pressure on the then Opposition lawmaker to refund their locked-up fund. Some victims received their funds but many others have still not received theirs.
Addressing the media in Koforidua, the aggrieved victims, numbering about twenty (20), chastised the lawmaker for failing to initiate plans of paying back customers.
According to them, several attempts to get their funds refunded have proven futile as they accused the MP of even failing to respond to their calls.
A 72-year old trader Elizabeth Amoah, narrating her ordeal to the media, revealed the MP promised to refund her money after the 2020 general elections but has since refused to even respond to her calls.
“I went to Begoro during the 2020 campaign season to demand my money but the MP apologized to me and promised to pay it soon after the election is over. It is sad to inform you that, the MP has not been picking my calls since after the elections, which he won,” she lamented.
She added “how can I be defrauded by an MP of my GHC12,000.000 after so many years of savings and be walking freely as a lawmaker. I am appealing to President Akufo-Addo and the Speaker to speak to Amankwah Asiamah to refund my money or we shall gather ourselves at the Jubilee House and Parliament to demand our money”.
Another victim stated “we are pleading with President Akufo Addo and the speaker, Kennedy Agyapong to intervene I am a strong NPP supporter but this MP is treating us bad. During the 2020 election I went to Begoro with my daughter to see the MP he snubbed us, I cried why should we be treated like this ”
Several other traders shared their harrowing situation including collapsed marriages as a result of hardship the locked-up funds brought upon them.
The Member of Parliament for Fanteakwa North Amankwah Asiamah who was the Chief Executive Officer of the collapsed Bank declined to comment on the latest agitations
But had earlier denied loaning deposits of the victims to sponsor Nana Akufo Addo’s campaign as alleged in 2012, hence the collapse as is peddled.
According to the MP, it is also incorrect that the bank owes over 1,000 customers explaining that his outfit managed to refund deposits of the majority of the customers.
The former Ranking Member for the Mines and Energy Committee of Parliament, Adam Mutawkilu has taunted Ghana’s Attorney General over the $170 million judgment debt case saying he would have won if the case was tried in Ghana.
According to him, the AG would have resorted to means and ways to win the case.
“We looked at it meticulously and realized that it has met all the conditions and parliament approval was condition precedent. So for me, there was no need for government to have canceled the project. No! And they know that when it goes anywhere in the world, government will lose. Then probably they thought it will be handled in Ghana. Maybe they can flex their muscles to find their way out,” the former lawmaker told Francis Abban on the Morning Starr Thursday.
The Attorney General has however blamed the erstwhile Mahama administration for the situation.
Background to the arbitration 
The International Court of Arbitration in January 2021 awarded a cost of $134 million and an interest of $30 million against the Government of Ghana over the cancellation of an Emergency Power Agreement with GCGP limited.
The Contract was cancelled under the former Energy Minister Boakye Agyarko as part of several other energy contracts cancelled by the NPP on the basis that the country did not need those power agreements.
The ruling by the International Court of Arbitration ordered the government to Ghana to pay to “GPGC the full value of the Early Termination Payment, together with Mobilization, Demobilization and preservation and maintenance costs in the amount of US$ 134,348,661, together also with interest thereon from 12 November 2018 until the date of payment, accruing daily and compounded monthly, at the rate of LIBOR for six-month US dollar deposits plus six per cent(6%).”
The Government of Ghana was also to pay GPGC an amount of “US$ 309,877.74 in respect of the Costs of the Arbitration, together with US$ 3,000,000 in respect of GPGC’s legal representation and the fees and expenses of its expert witness, together with interest on the aggregate amount of US$ 3,309,877.74 at the rate of LIBOR for three-month US dollar deposits, compounded quarterly.”
Residents in the Ajumako Ochiso Community of the Central region are excited beyond measure as a mammoth quantity of fish has appeared in their river [Ochi], which used to be just a source of drinking water for them.

This happened after Thursday dawn’s downpour. According to the residents, the mystery was a blessing from the gods.

Leaders in the community poured libations and opened up for inhabitants to apportion the bounty and take it home.

Speaking to Kasapa FM’s central regional correspondent Yaw Boagyan, Wofa Yaw Obosu who used to work at the bank of the river narrated that this has never happened since he came into the area and he also believes it’s a blessing for the community.

According to him, they will send some of the fishes to the market for sale. “Since the fishes appeared at the river bank, I have been able to employ over twenty youth to work for me to process for sale at the Mankessim, Kasoa, markets.”

“This is beyond my understanding since something of this nature has never happened in the Ajumako Ochiso Community.”

Meanwhile, some of the residents who came went the scene also appealed to the Ministry of Fisheries and Aquaculture to come and assist them in terms of providing them with tricycles to be able to transport the fishes to the market.

“We don’t have job to do in the Ajumako Ochiso Community here so this will enable us to be employed to get money to take care of our children’s education and household. We are therefore calling on authorities to come and assist us to address the challenges we are facing in the Ajumako Ochiso Community as regards employment,” a resident appealed.

The Assembly Member of the Ajumako Ochiso South Maxwell Mensah also appealed to the Ministry of Fisheries and Aquaculture and other government to assist the community members in terms of providing logistics to be able to fish for more fishes in the river for the youth to be employed.
The Executive Director for the Institute of Energy Security, Nana Amoasi VII, has taken a swipe at the Attorney General, Godfred Dame, describing him as negligent for his failure to defend Ghana on the $170 million judgment debt awarded to power company, The Ghana Power Generation Company (GCGP).

In an interview on the Morning Starr on Thursday, Nana Amoasi VII called on the Attorney General to account to Ghanaians why he failed to appeal the $170 million judgment debt in time.

“We had an opportunity to go and appeal against the decision and we chose to use Covid-19 and election as excuses. The Attorney General was negligent as well. He didn’t act well. He could have defended us better so we should look into it.”

His comments come after the Commercial Court in London rejected a late appeal from Ghana against a judgement debt award of US$170 million in favour of power contractor, The Ghana Power Generation Company (GCGP).

According to the London Court, the government of Ghana failed to apply and set aside the January 26, 2021 decision of the London-based United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) Tribunal.

The court in a ruling on Wednesday, June 8, refused to grant the government of Ghana an extension to apply to set aside the award – adding that the state’s grounds for challenging it were “intrinsically weak”.

The government through its lawyer Godfred Dame had attempted to hide behind the 2020 general election and the COVID-19 pandemic as excuses for the delay, but their excuses were dismissed by the London court.

GPGC was represented before the court by Charles Kimmins QC and Mark Tushingham, where Ghana was said to have been too late to challenge the decision against it.

Ghana had used Khawar Qureshi QC of Serle Court and Volterra Fietta, having initially retained Omnia Strategy. In the arbitration, GPGC, used Three Crowns and Ghanaian firm, Kimathi & Partners, along with damages experts from FTI Consulting.

Ghana also had representation from the attorney general’s office and Amofa & Partners in Accra.

The three-member arbitration tribunal chaired by John Beechey, a former President of the International Criminal Court’s Court of Arbitration, and co-chaired by Prof Albert Fiadjoe, a Ghanaian academic, sided with the power producer and awarded almost US$170 million, including interest.

Out of the total, U$134.35 million represents the early termination payment claim, which itself is made up of US $69.36 million as an early termination fee, US$58.49 million for mobilisation costs, US$6.46 million as demobilisation cost and US$32,448 as preservation and maintenance cost.

The tribunal also awarded US$614,353.86 against the country as the cost of the tribunal, and costs of US$3 million against Ghana, being the legal fees expended by the GPGC during the arbitration.

Major highlights of the tribunal’s decision included the fact that the Ahenkora Committee which recommended the termination of the contract did not have sufficient ground in coming to the conclusion that the GPGC was entitled to only $US18 million in early termination fees.

The tribunal, in dismissing Ghana’s case, delved into the basis for terminating the contract, stating that the evidence before it indicated that “GPGC did have a building permit for the Blue Ocean Site issued by the Kpone-Katamanso District Assembly on  August 15, 2017.”

“GoG [The government] has not been able to adduce any statute or regulation, including the Energy Commission Act, which addresses the requirement for any such additional construction permit,” the Tribunal ruled.

“On the basis of the record as it now stands, it is apparent that even as Dr. Ahenkorah [Energy Commission Executive Secretary at the time]  was putting up further hurdles over which he required GPGC to jump in pursuit of its provisional generation license in November 2017, the Minister of Energy was about to seek the approval of the Ghanaian Parliament of a decision to terminate the EPA along with a number of other PPAs, based upon the Report of the PPA Committee chaired by Dr. Ahenkorah,” it said.

Under British law, the government had 28 days to challenge the tribunal’s decision. However, it went to sleep only to appear in court three days to the expiry of the deadline to ask for an extension.

Omnia Strategy, a British law firm, made the case for extension and asked for 56 days—twice the allowed grace period.

However, the court set March 8, 2021, for the Government to file the processes to challenge the Tribunal’s decision in January. But again, the government took a long nap until April 1, 2021, before filing. This time, another British law firm, Volterra Fietta, had instructions from the government to begin the process.

The law firm, which tagged itself as the only dedicated public international law firm in the world, explained that the new Attorney General, Godfred Yeboah Dame, had only been sworn in on March 5, and the firm received the directive to represent Ghana 10 days later.

But ruling on the matter on June 8, 2021, the court had no sympathies. It said the excuses were unreasonable and “intrinsically weak.”

The presiding judge, Justice Butcher did not hold back.

The judge said the government’s delay was “significant and substantial” as its request for a second extension had come 38 days after the statutory deadline and 27 days after the first extension expired, the Global Arbitration Review (GAR) reported.

He noted that the large sum of money involved in the arbitration was not enough grounds for the appeal to take as long as it did.

“The fact that the Attorney General had not been sworn until March 5 did not mean the government was unable to act in the meantime, the judge said.

Background to the arbitration 

The International Court of Arbitration in January 2021 awarded a cost of $134 million and an interest of $30 million against the Government of Ghana over the cancellation of an Emergency Power Agreement with GCGP limited.

The Contract was cancelled under the former Energy Minister Boakye Agyarko as part of several other energy contracts cancelled by the NPP on the basis that the country did not need those power agreements.

The ruling by the International Court of Arbitration ordered the government to Ghana to pay to “GPGC the full value of the Early Termination Payment, together with Mobilization, Demobilization and preservation and maintenance costs in the amount of US$ 134,348,661, together also with interest thereon from 12 November 2018 until the date of payment, accruing daily and compounded monthly, at the rate of LIBOR for six-month US dollar deposits plus six per cent(6%).”

The Government of Ghana was also to pay GPGC an amount of “US$ 309,877.74 in respect of the Costs of the Arbitration, together with US$ 3,000,000 in respect of GPGC’s legal representation and the fees and expenses of its expert witness, together with interest on the aggregate amount of US$ 3,309,877.74 at the rate of LIBOR for three-month US dollar deposits, compounded quarterly.”
A baby has been reportedly washed away in Sawaba in Kumasi following the Wednesday evening rains in the Ashanti regional capital.

The baby was traveling with his parents in a tricycle when they got stuck in a flood causing the tricycle to tip over.

Residents in the community, according to reports, moved in to save the parents but could not find the baby as he was washed away by the flood.

“The body of the baby who was washed away hasn’t been found. The parents are not taking it easy at all. When it rains, it’s difficult to use the Sawaba road. The gutters become flooded so we don’t know why the tricycle rider tried using the road that led to the death of the 1-yr-old baby,” a resident told Francis Abban on the Morning Starr Thursday.

Other reports also say the convoy of President Akufo-Addo which was returning from the Upper East region got stuck in the flood.
A suspected notorious armed robber, Iddrisu Adams alias Koomi, who was arrested by the Ashanti Regional Police Command in connection with a series of robberies has been shot by Police in a bid to stop him from escaping lawful custody.
The suspect was on the wanted list of the command and was arrested on 22nd June 2021 through a special police operation.
On 23rd June 2021, he was being escorted to places named by him as hide-outs of his accomplices when he attempted to escape. The police responded swiftly by shooting him.
The suspect was taken to the St. Martins Hospital where he was pronounced dead.
A release by the police stated that they are on the lookout for his accomplices who are advised to surrender by reporting to the nearest Police Station.
The Police also assured the public of their commitment to prevent and fight crime and called on the public for cooperation.
The Minister for National Security Albert Kan Dapaah has revealed details surrounding the forceful eviction of former Ashanti Regional Security Coordinator DCOP Opare-Addo (rtd) from office by some National Security operatives.

According to Kan Dapaah, the move became necessary after several attempts to get the security Coordinator to vacate post after the termination of his appointment proved futile.

The ejected coordinator told Starr News he was evicted by members of NPP affiliated vigilante group, Delta Force, who assaulted him in the process for failing to do their bidding in the region.

But answering questions from South Dayi MP Rockson-Nelson Dafeamekpo, the national security minister explained the men dispatched were national security operatives.

He, however, refused to disclose reasons for the termination of the appointment of Mr. Opare-Addo insisting the use of force was necessary under the circumstances.

“He [Opare-Addo] was on a three-year contract to serve as the Ashanti regional security liaison officer after the expiration of an initial two-year contract which began on January 5th, 2018. His new appointment took effect from January 1, 2020, and was to expire on December 31, 2022.”

“However, his appointment was terminated on February 19, 2021, by the national security coordinator. Upon the termination of his contract, DCOP Opare-Addo was paid his entitlements as per his appointment letter. Subsequent to the termination of the appointment, the ministry appointed Col Francis Arthur (rtd) as the new Ashanti regional security liaison officer. The colonel’s appointment took effect from 1st May 2021. But he [Opare-Addo] refused to hand over to Colonel Francis Arthur. He then declined numerous invitations from the national security coordinator to explain his refusal to vacate the office.”

Mr Dapaah further explained “Meanwhile, his continuous stay in office obstructed the work of the new regional security liaison officer. Against this backdrop, personnel from the ministry of national security were on 11th May 2021 dispatched to the Ashanti region to ascertain the reason for DCOP Opare Addo’s refusal to vacate his office. And if it became necessary to change the locks of the door to his office. On arrival, the personnel duly introduced themselves but were met with acts of hostility from DCOP Opare-Addo, including drawing his sidearm. The personnel managed to persuade him and retrieved the sidearm.”

He added “till date, no official complaint has been made by DCOP Opare-Addo either to his immediate boss the national security coordinator or to me as the sector minister regarding the alleged assault on him. Neither has the minister of national security received any correspondence from the police in relation to the allegations.”

“I will want to assure the house of our willingness to investigate the incident should any official complaint be made by DCOP Opare-Addo.”
Outgoing British High Commissioner to Ghana, Iain Walker, and Chief Executive Officer of EIB Network Nathan Kwabena Adisi also known as Bola Ray on Wednesday embarked on a ‘Waakye tour’ on the streets of Accra along with King Promise.

The tour dubbed ‘Taste Ghana’ spearheaded by Bola Ray was to give the High Commissioner a taste of Ghana’s popular street dishes. The Waakye tour started from a popular Waakye joint at Accra New Town and ended at one of the preferred Waakye joints in Nima.
Police in Adeiso in the Eastern Region have intercepted four (4) pump action guns and seventy-eight live cartridges from a vehicle allegedly belonging to a sand-winning Company.

Information gathered indicates that on June 21, 2021, at about 3:00 am Adeiso Police Command gathered intelligence that there was illegal sand winning ongoing at Okaikrom community near Adeiso.

Police dispatched a team to the area and met some tipper trucks and two payloaders winning sand.

The tipper truck drivers and the payloader operators sped off on seeing the Police but the Police managed to arrest suspect Klutse Kofi who was in charge of Mitsubishi Pickup with registration number GE 7191-19.

A search conducted in the Pickup led to the retrieval of four Pump Action guns with 78 live cartridges.

The Public Relations Officer of the Eastern Regional Police Command confirmed the arrest to Starr News.

He said the suspect told Police that the weapons belonged to Sammertide Construction and Sand Winning Company.

He said the suspect has been detained while the four Pump Action guns retained at the Station.

This is happening on the back of an attack on the mining site by some armed men.

On June 15, 2021, at about 2:00 pm, the first complainant Osae Kwame was returning from his farm to Adeiso town to buy food for his farm labourers but met the accused persons who were in a convoy of three pick-up vehicles and a Jeep vehicle with registration number GS 9835-19, stopped by him, handcuffed and abducted him into one of the Pick-Up vehicles and drove him to Tank Akuraa a farming community near Adeiso.

Police upon receipt of distress calls about the incident rushed to the village and rescued him but the accused persons sped off from the scene and invaded the Summertide Company sand-winning site at Obeng Yaw village also near Adeiso amidst sporadic firing of gunshots.

The second complainant Alhassan Zakari was shot on the left leg during the indiscriminate firing of gunshots.

They violently arrested five(5) persons at the site, whisked them into their vehicles, and drove away to an unknown location.

The owner of the site alleged he later detected that the accused persons stole Ghc96,000 at the site during the gun violence.

The five persons arrested by the accused persons were later rescued by Kyebi Police after the wireless message was activated by police.

At about 4:20 pm, the accused persons were arrested by the Adeiso Police.

A search conducted in a Jeep vehicle belonging to Nana Barfuor Sarpong who claimed to be National Security Operative detected one Ak47 assault rifle, one pistol, and three(3) spent shells which were retrieved by the Police.

The victims -Alhassan Zakaria and Bright Apama who sustained gunshot wounds on their legs were receiving treatment at the Eastern Regional Hospital in Koforidua.

Meanwhile, the Eastern Regional CID has taken over the case.

Accused persons granted Bail

The Koforidua Circuit Court admitted the five(5) accused persons including Akyem Abuakwa chief who claim to be a National Security Operative to bail in the sum of 200,000 cedis with 2 sureties.

The accused persons are Nana Barfuor Sarpong, Nana Barima Twum Tarbiade II, both sub-chiefs in Akyem Abuakwa.

The rest are Jonathan Martey ,Eric Yaw Obeng ,Victor Ahenkora Koranteng ,and others at large .

They were arraigned before the court on Friday, June 19, 2021, on seven charges which are; conspiracy to commit a crime with kidnapping, Kidnapping, causing unlawful harm, stealing, conspiracy to commit robbery, robbery, possession of firearm and ammunition

The case has been adjourned to 19th July 2021.

The Prosecuting Officer Cyril Boateng Keteku, Assistant State Attorney explained to the court that, the first complainant in the case, Osae Kwame, 59, is a farmer while the second complainant Alhassan Zakari, 39, is also a farmer.

The third complainant Samuel Astu Forson is Chief of Adeiso also Executive Officer of Summertide sand winning Company.

He said the accused persons are Nana Baffuor Sarpong who claimed to be National Security Personnel attached to Forestry Commission as training Coordinator and timber monitoring officer.

The second accused person Nana Barima Twum Tabirade claimed to be the boundary Chief of all Akyem lands. The third accused person Jonathan Martey is a driver to Nana Barfuor, the fourth accused person Eric Yaw Obeng claimed to be an aide to the Nana Barfuor, while the fifth accused person Victor Ahenkora Koranteng claimed to be Immigration Officer.

The other accused persons are at large
The Government has moved to avert attacks from Burkinabe bandits in Ghana as it announces the construction of permanent barracks in Bawku to enhance security in that part of the country

The announcement made by President Akufo-Addo comes just a week after security agencies were put on high alert to fore-planned attacks by bandits from Burkina Faso.

He was speaking at a meeting with the Bawku Naba to end his tour of the Upper-East region.

“The proximity of your region to Burkina Faso makes it an obvious potential target for these murderers and criminals who want to destabilize and terrorize our lives in Ghana.”

He went on”Bawku Naba, you are aware of the measures that the government is taking to strengthen the security agencies here and protect us from terrorist attacks emanating from Burkina Faso.

“And I’m happy to inform you that a permanent baracks is going to be established here in this area to be able to address the issue of terrorism.”

Meanwhile, the Bawku Naba, who is also President of the Kusaug Traditional Council, Asigiri Abugrago Azoka II, said the Chiefs and People of the Kusaug Traditional Area, and, indeed, all Ghanaians appreciate the policies of the President of the Republic, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo.

Congratulating President Akufo-Addo on his electoral victory, “which has put the destiny of Ghana firmly in your hands for the next four (4) years”, the Bawku Naba told the President that “you have worked hard to earn that enviable position. I wish you God’s continued blessing in wisdom as well as good health to execute your policies.”
A survey conducted by Child Rights International has revealed that 55% out of 11, 288 children between the ages of 12 and 17 sampled want to leave Ghana for greener pastures abroad.

Eleven percent said they were not certain about staying or leaving the country.

“55% of the respondents say they wish to migrate to another country, while 11% would either stay in the country or leave. A majority of the respondents cited greener pastures, education and better standard of living as reasons why they would leave the country when there is a chance,” the survey said.

On whether they are optimistic in the future of the nation, the survey said: “Nearly 80% of the respondents say they are optimistic about Ghana in the next 20 years. More than two in ten (22%) see the country’s future as bleak”.On Education and opportunities, the survey said: “Over half of the children (53%) say they are optimistic. 47% of the respondents paint a bleak picture as to how the country’s current educational system would help them find jobs in the next 20 years”.
Some youth groups in the Ashanti region have threatened to shut down branches of the  Lighthouse Chapel International in the region over a critical sermon delivered by the leader of the church Bishop Dag Heward-Mills which appeared to attack the Ashanti Monarch Otumfuo Osei Tutu.

The said sermon, which has found its way onto social media, is said to be questioning the impact of the influential king on his subjects and community.

According to the group, the popular televangelist has slighted the revered traditional leader and must go beyond an apology to atone for his sins.

“We are calling on Bishop Dag to seek wise counsel within 48 hours. Otherwise, none of his churches in the Asanteman enclave will be allowed to operate. Also, we are warning all and sundry who hide behind religion and politics to push this evil agenda against Asanteman and his royal majesty Otumfuo Osei Tutu. We will let them know that we will meet them up with brute force” the General Secretary of one of the groups Kwabena Frimpong said.

Bishop Dag Heward-Mills has however apologised over the sermon.

In an apology, the Preacher said: “I am deeply saddened that a message I shared at a conference, nearly 20 years ago, has been taken out of its context and circulated by persons who have previously declared that they will maliciously cause our churches in Kumasi to be closed down.

“I wish to apologize to His Majesty Otumfuo Nana Osei Tutu II for any disrespect, insult or harm caused him or his royal court. Please accept my profound apologies for the statements I made”.

The National Democratic Congress has slammed Chief Justice Kwasi Anin-Yeboah, describing his petition to the General Legal Council against lawmaker, Dominic Ayine, as an attempt to suppress free speech.

Dr Ayine is reported to have said the Supreme Court failed to apply the rules of procedure during the trial. He is also believed to have raised concerns over the regular dismissal of the petitioners’ applications during the case.

He made the comments at an event organised by the Centre for Democratic Development (CDD) and the KNUST.

The petition by the Chief Justice urged the GLC to probe the lawmaker over the comments and apply the necessary sanctions.

Addressing a Press Conference on Monday, the General Secretary of the NDC, Johnson Asiedu Nketia called on the Chief Justice to immediately the petition against the MP for Bolgatanga East.

“Public confidence in the judiciary must be earned and not forced on us. How many times have you heard any court telling anybody that I’m going to give a judgment but I’m warning you not to talk about it?” Mr Asiedu Nketia popularly known as General Mosquito said.

He added that “The judiciary, like parliament or executive, is not above criticism…Our laws and constitution protect the integrity and independence of the judiciary and not the sensibility of a judge. The notion that the judicial arm of gov’t is beyond reproach is a fantasy that can’t be sustained.”

Mr Asiedu Nketia also accused the Chief Justice of targeting NDC affiliated lawyers and called on him to stop the witch-hunt.

“It’s no coincidence that virtually all the lawyers who have been reported to the disciplinary committee of the General Legal council by the Chief Justice, Justice Kwasi Anin Yeboah in recent times are aligned to the NDC. What is the Chief Justice’s personal interest in the punishment of NDC affiliated lawyers that his he’s so keen to initiate unwarranted actions against them”
Ghana has been ranked the second most peaceful country in Africa behind Mauritius in the 2021 Global Peace Index report by the Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP).

The Global Peace Index is the world’s leading measure of global peacefulness. The index ranks 163 independent states and territories according to their level of peacefulness. This report presents the most comprehensive data-driven analysis to date on trends in peace, its economic value, and how to develop peaceful societies.

In the latest rankings, Ghana ranked 38th in the world out of a total of 163 countries reviewed. Ghana scored 1.715 which represents a two-point move upwards from the country’s previous position.

Mauritius, the most peaceful country in Africa ranked 28th globally, while Botswana ranked third place in Africa and 41st in the world. Nigeria ranked 146 globally behind Togo, Uganda, Kenya, The Republic of Congo and Cameroon.

Iceland remains the most peaceful country in the world, a position it has held since 2008. It is joined at the top of the index by New Zealand, Denmark, Portugal, and Slovenia.

Afghanistan is the least peaceful country in the world for the fourth consecutive year, followed by Yemen, Syria, South Sudan, and Iraq. Burkina Faso recorded the largest deterioration in the Global Peace Index 2021.

According to the report, half of the population in Sub-Saharan Africa had a recent experience of violence. Those living in Namibia had the highest experience of violence in the world at 6 per cent.

South Sudan remains the least peaceful country in the region and one of the least peaceful countries in the world, despite an improvement in peacefulness in the 2021 index.

The largest deterioration in peacefulness in the region occurred in Burkina Faso. This was also the single largest deterioration of any country. The government’s decision to fund and arm civilian auxiliary groups in its fight against insurgents drove the plunge.

The report highlighted that civil unrest rose 10 per cent globally, driven by the coronavirus pandemic. There were 14,871 violent demonstrations, protests and riots recorded globally in 2020.

The report said Covid was a “multiplying force” in future political instability and civil unrest. It added the level of this unrest going forward is likely to hinge on the speed and effectiveness of economic recovery. Countries with less debt and higher levels of positive peace were more likely to recover faster.

Despite this, overall three-quarters of people globally feel as safe or safer today than they did five years ago. Some indicators of violence have recorded significant improvements since the start of the index, and 123 countries have seen murder rates fall since 2008.

The Index also revealed that “the average level of global peacefulness deteriorated by 0.07 per cent in the 2021 Global Peace Index. Although a relatively small deterioration, this is the ninth time in the last 13 years that global peacefulness has deteriorated”.

The report added that “in the past year, 87 countries recorded an improvement in peacefulness, while 73 countries recorded a deterioration. Three countries recorded no change in their overall score. The Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region remained the world’s least peaceful region. It is home to three of the five least peaceful countries in the world. However, it recorded the largest regional improvement over the past year”.

“Europe…remains the most peaceful region in the world. The region is home to eight of the ten most peaceful countries, and no country in Europe is ranked outside the top half of the index”.
President-elect Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has assured Ghanaians that they will see an improvement in the standard of living under his presidency.

According to him, the next four years must have a positive impact on the life of the ordinary Ghanaian.

“I am extremely concerned, that the next four years will see a marked improvement in the living standards of the people of Ghana,” the president-elect made the comments during his official tour to Nigeria after he won the presidential elections.

Mr. Akufo-Addo addressing the Governor of the Imo State in Nigeria Owelle Rochas Anayo Okorocha, Monday added: “the Ghanaian economy has taken a hit in these last three or four years but we believe with discipline, with hard work and correct set of policies we should be able to bring the country back to prosperity.”

The president-elect who beat Incumbent President, John Dramani Mahama in the just ended presidential election is on a three-day visit to Nigeria where he will have discussions with the oil producing country’s leader, Muhammudu Buhari.

Mr. Akufo-Addo also assured the Imo State governor that relationship between the two West African countries will be strengthened under his presidency.

“We value the historic relationship between the two countries. It is important that such links are established between our people and our leaders. They give confidence to our populations that we are working to try and resolve their problems and help them progress with their lives…the stronger the relationship between the two countries is, the better it is for the West Africa Region and the continent large,” he added.
President John Dramani Mahama has confirmed Joseph Whittal as the new Commissioner for the Commission on Human Rights and Administrative Justice (CHRAJ).

Mr. Whittal was sworn-in at a short ceremony at the Flagstaff House Tuesday afternoon.

Mr. Whittal has been acting as the head for CHRAJ since the former commissioner, Lauretta Vivian Lamptey was removed by the President after causing financial loss to the state.

The President has appointed Ms. Josephine Nkrumah as the substantive head of the National Commission for Civic Education (NCCE).

Ms. Nkrumah who was a deputy chairman for the commission replaces Mrs. Charlotte Osei, wdho was as the head of the country’s Electoral Commission by the President in July last year.

The appointments come few weeks after the President lost the presidential election to opposition NPP leader Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo.

The president-elect will be sworn-in on January 7, 2017.
GN Health Insurance Company Ltd, one of the 75 companies of Groupe Nduom has begun operating Ambulance Services in Ghana.

It is expected to among other tasks offer emergency medical service and administer emergency care to those with acute medical problems.

The GN Health Ambulance Service shall also provide a 24-hour response to medical and trauma related emergencies and interventions.

The chairman of GN Health Issah Adam noted “once again the President and CEO of Groupe Nduom, Dr Papa Kwesi Nduom, as well as the Senior Vice President, Mrs Yvonne Nduom and all the Directors are once more setting the pace in terms of providing improved welfare services to employees of the Group”.

He told the gathering of health professionals “this marks yet another milestone in the annals of Groupe Nduom. In addition to providing free medical services, they are adding this Ambulance Service to complete the bouquet of Medical Services for the benefit of employees of the group in Greater Accra and Central Regions”.

Over 60% of deaths in Ghana, according to available statistics, are as a result of unavailable ambulance service to transport women in labour and accident victims to the appropriate medical facility. Experts believe the conditions leading to deaths can be addressed by appropriate and timely emergency care like what GN Health Ambulance Service seeks to achieve.

“GN Health will make sure that we have well trained EMTs (Emergency Medical Technicians) and Ambulance Drivers who are well trained and know exactly what to do in emergency situations.

“The Ford 350 ambulances, are well equipped with modern equipment and consumables needed for emergency situations and pre-hospital care to patients. Please take note that these are not just ambulances to provide transport services that cannot provide proper pre-hospital care,” he added.

The Ambulances have a more robust set of equipment for pre-hospital care. They are equipped with tools necessary for multiple types of emergencies, from respiratory assistance machines and defibrillators to items as simple as bandages and disinfectant solution.
Government has promised to absorb the costs of treatment for injured victims of Thursday’s gas explosion at La.

Six people have been confirmed dead in the gas explosion that occurred near the Trade Fair Centre in Accra while over 20 people have sustained various degrees of injuries.

The Health Minister Alex Segbefia visiting victims at the La General, Police and 37 Military hospitals where some of the victims were receiving treatment, commended medical officers for their professionalism in caring for the victims.

“The president has indicated clearly that all the costs of the burn victims from this incident will be covered by the state, so we’ve made it clear to the management and the Brigadier General-in-charge, the commandant, that they should quickly put together all the logistics and costs of caring for these patients.

“As you know with burn victims, there is the need to constantly wash, constantly change dressing, and put them on antibiotics and very strong pain killers, so there is for each patient a cost. You have to bring in extra staff to actually deal with it and this has been done in a very military-type fashion in this hospital,” he stated.

Meanwhile, President John Dramani Mahama has called on Ghanaians to pray for victims of Thursday’s gas explosion.

In a Facebook post Friday, the outgoing president took to his Facebook wall to console the victims.

“My condolences to families of the victims of yesterday’s gas explosion; let’s continue to pray for the injured.”
A gas station near the Ghana International Trade Fair Centre in Accra has exploded with five people burnt to death.
The fire, according to an eyewitness also affected parts of the national exhibition and trade centre.
According to Veronica Koomson, an ambulance and fire tenders at the scene managed to fight the intense blaze which has sent people running helter-skelter.
“The fire is blazing and we are doing everything possible to quench it. The Armed Forces fire fighters are here too and doing everything possible to ensure this fire is actually extinguished,” the spokesperson of the Ghana National Fire Service (GNFS) Prince Billy-Anaglatey told Starr News’ Kemini Amanor on Thursday.
Koomson said another gas station which is situated near the burning one is likely to go up in flames if the fire fighters do not put up measures to salvage the situation.
However, Billy-Anaglatey said he cannot confirm any casualty, adding “our concern now is to confine the fire” so it does not catch up with the other.”
The cause of the explosion is not known. There is total blackout at the area as electricity cables also caught fire in the melee.
One person has died in a ghastly accident which occurred last night at Ekumfi Akoti in the Ekumfi district of the Central region.
The deceased, a Nigerian, lost his life when the truck he was driving veered off the road and caught fire.
The truck which was loaded with Cola was on its way to Nigeria from Mankessim.
According to eyewitnesses, the vehicle veered into a nearby bush when the deceased lost control.
However,  bystanders managed to save two other passengers who were in the vehicle before it caught fire, and burnt  the driver to death on the spot.  
The two are currently receiving treatment at the Cape Coast regional hospital.
Officers of the Ghana Fire Service later arrived at the scene to control the inferno.
The accident brings to two, the number of terrible accidents that have occurred in the area over the last two weeks.
A fortnight  ago, 15 people died on the same stretch of road in a crash between a Yutong bus and a Sprinter.
Some chiefs in the Ga traditional area have given the Gbese mantse, Nii Ayibonte, a seven-day ultimatum to relinquish his throne.
The Chiefs are angry with the Gbese Chief over claims he made prior to the 2016 general elections.
Nii Ayibonte promised to abdicate his throne if president John Mahama loses the presidential election.
Nii Ayibonte told his subjects before the election that he had no doubt Mahama would win the election based on the numerous infrastructural projects.
But luck eluded the former Chairman of Accra Hearts of Oak after he gambled with his seat.
Nii Ayibonte has not whispered a word about what he intends to do after the massive victory of Nana Akufo-Addo.
The Ga Chiefs who are demanding he abdicates his throne have also pricked old wounds. They are also challenging his eligibility as the Gbese chief.
Two women were killed and more than 12 others injured, after a car lost control on the abandoned Daboya- Busunu road in the Northern region and rammed into a gutter Tuesday evening, police have confirmed.
The car, a mini van had 14 passengers who were being transported to Daboya from Sawla to attend an Islamic wedding ceremony.
The West Gonja district police commander ASP Seidu Wemeh said the car with registration number AS 2304-15 upon reaching a community near Daboya suddenly veered off the road and summer saulted into a gutter killing the two instantly .
The deceased were female adults between the ages of 42- 45 respectively.
It is still undetermined what caused the crash but according to ASP Seidu, police will technically investigate the mental state of the driver and whether alcohol was involved.
He added most of the injured were transported to the regional hospital in Tamale with only one being treated at Damongo.
Accident on the Daboya-Busunu road are uncommon despite its bad nature.
Community members have denied the report saying this is the first time in the year an accident is recorded on the neglected road. 
They say most accidents go unreported.
The Minister of Energy, Dr Matthew Opoku Prempeh, has said the Government is working towards boosting Ghana's industrialisation with clean and reliable energy systems, such as nuclear and renewables.
He said there was a growing consensus that nuclear energy had an important role in decarbonising electricity generation for accelerated industrial development.
“While renewable energy sources are expected to continue to grow significantly, nuclear power, an important part of today’s clear energy, is also the largest source of lower-carbon electricity generation in advanced economies, providing approximately 40 percent of all low carbon generations,” he said.
He referred to an International Energy Agency report on clean energy system asserting that without nuclear investment, achieving a sustainable energy system would be much harder with implications to emissions, cost and energy security.
Dr Opoku Prempeh stated this, in a speech read on his behalf, at a Stakeholders Forum on Ghana’s Nuclear Power Programme in Accra.
Under the theme: “Nuclear Energy Innovations: The Future Technologies for Clean Energy and how to drive deep decarbonisation of Ghana’s power sector", the forum was organised by the Association of Ghana Industries (AGI), in collaboration with Nuclear Power Ghana (NPG).
Dr Opoku Prempeh noted that turning to clean energy systems for electricity generation would also decarbonise other areas, such as transportation, and other environmental pollution activities.
"Within Ghana’s power generation side, issues on consistent demand growth, high tariff for industries, affordability, reliability, and resilience criteria have brought to the fore the issue of an alternative base-load power," he stated.
Considering the facts available on the country's energy needs, capacity, cost and other related issues, nuclear energy, he said, could provide that alternative clean base-load power.
“A new nuclear power station does not only generate reliable low carbon electricity but also provides wider social-economic benefits both during its development, construction and the subsequent 60 years that the plant would be in operation.”
He recalled that in 2007, former President John Agyekum Kufuor set up a committee, chaired by Professor Daniel Adzei-Bekoe, to explore the possibility of Ghana using nuclear energy as an alternative based-load source of power.
This was around the time that Ghana was faced with supply power challenges.
To sustain the natural progression of the country’s technological energy advancement, he noted, subsequent governments had supported this effort to improve the country’s energy security to provide leadership and resources to facilitate the nuclear power programme.
This has given birth to the NPG to become the owner/operator of Ghana’s first nuclear power plant.
He said the NPG Board, under the chairmanship of Mr Fred Oware, was focused on providing relevant resources to build a strong safety culture and resilience management systems that adhered to standards in the planning and development of nuclear infrastructure and related activities across the country.
In addition to electricity generation, nuclear energy, the Minister said, could provide solutions to an even wider range of applications - those innovative nuclear technologies such as small modular reactors would complement existing large reactors to enable deep decarbonization as part of the clean energy transition.
"Nuclear technologies are equally improving people’s lives in many other ways and are supporting sustainable developments," he said.
"Medical, industry and agriculture applications of nuclear technology are in use all over the world, including Ghana.
The affixing of tax stamps on alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages has grown exponentially since its introduction about four years ago.
From an initial 28.5 million tax stams affixed in 2018, the number increased to 38.5 million the following year and 70.2 million in 2020, with managers of the project projecting to affix some 90 million stamps in 2021.
The Ghana Revenue Authority (GRA) said it was also engaging the Food and Beverages Association of Ghana (FABAG) and local manufacturers to pay for the affixing of the stamps on their beverage products at the stamping facilities.
The Ghanaian printing company, Buck Press, and its partner, DelaRue, a British security printing company, are responsible for printing the tax stamps on behalf of the GRA, while Streamline Resources, which is located at the Tema Port, assists companies without the technical capacity to fix the stamps on individual products.
The Project Manager of Excise Tax Stamp at the GRA, Mr Kwabena Apau Awuah Anto, who disclosed this, said the move would reduce the incidence of product fraud and piracy, where importers and manufacturers applied for the stamps for specific products but affixed them on pirated products that had no approval and safety certification from the Food and Drugs Authority (FDA).
Speaking during a tour of the tax stamp facilities at the Tema Port by a team from the Graphic Communications Group Limited (GCGL) last Thursday, Mr Anto noted that the Commissioner General of the GRA had already granted authorisation to some 34 large importers and manufacturers, including Guinness Ghana Limited and the Coca-Cola Bottling Company, to undertake the affixing of the stamps at their factories at their own cost.
The GGCL team, which was led by the Managing Director, Mr Ato Afful, included the Editor of the Daily Graphic, Mr Kobby Asmah; the Director, Marketing, Mr Franklin Sowa, and the Editor of The Mirror, Ms Doreen Hammond.
The team was in Tema to have firsthand appreciation of progress of the excise tax stamp policy and also explore collaboration with the GRA on how to further advance the initiative.
Mr Anto said the excise stamp policy would reduce product fraud and ensure that only wholesome products were allowed into the market space to ensure public health and safety..
Similarly, he said, the policy would ensure revenue assurance and further level the playing field for importers and manufacturers to compete fairly on the market through the payment of appropriate taxes.
Mr Anto said: “What we do here at the Tema facilities and 13 other stations across the country where we have affixing facilities is at no cost to importers.”
Operating the facilities, he said, came with headline costs such as the procurement of the stamps, utility, labour, operational cost and materials such as shrink wraps
He indicated that when the project took off in 2018, the government decided to give a six-month window to supply the stamps for free, but that had continued till date, hence the Commissioner General's directive for the stakeholders to be engaged and sensitised to the need for them to pay.
The engagements, Mr Anto said, would determine whether the GRA would charge the full cost or there would be cost sharing between it and the stakeholders.
“In countries such as Kenya, importers pay for the stamps or they get the products stamped at the point of export. 
Ghana's policy on the tax stamp policy places the responsibility on the affected excise product on the importer or the manufacturer. 
In many countries where similar policies are implemented, manufacturers have affixing facilities at their production units,” Mr Anto said.
On the recent challenges that saw delays and congestion at the facility, which led to an outcry among importers, Mr Anto explained that the Tema facilities were not meant for large volume importers but for people who only imported occasionally.
However, he said, large volume importers, in their attempt to avoid associated costs that came with the affixing, often sent their products to the facilities for stamping, a situation which resulted in congestion and delays.
Similarly, challenges with the stamps after a change in the service provider also resulted in some delays, he noted.
However, engineers worked on the machines to be able to pick the new stamps.
In his remarks, Mr Asmah called on the GRA to intensify education on policies that were periodically introduced into the trade space.
Tax education, he said, was important, since it would ensure compliance at all levels and also ensure that people did not short-change the system.
He commended officials of the GRA and the service provider, Streamline Resources, for taking steps to address the challenges.
The GCGL, he said, would collaborate with the GRA to scale up its sensitisation efforts, having had an insight into the operations of the excise tax stamp policy.
“I believe this is the right time for the GCGL and the GRA to deepen collaboration for the purpose of public sensitisation, so that we can get a buy-in from the public,” Mr Asmah said.
he Institute of Energy Security (IES) has said prices of fuel will appreciate marginally at the pumps. A statement issued by IES indicated that the price of fuel on the local market increased within the window under review.
Within the first pricing window of June 2021, majority of the oil marketing companies (OMCs) increased their prices of petroleum products by 3% at the pump. Based on this increase, the current national average price of fuel per litre at the pump is pegged at GHS5.97 for both gasoline and gasoil.   
For this pricing window, Zen Petroleum, Benab Oil, Cash Oil, Goodness Oil, Top Oil and Frimps Oil sold the least-priced fuel on the local market, according to IES’ market scan.
For the window under assessment, international benchmark Brent crude price averaged $73.98 per barrel, representing a 4.05% increase from the previous window's average price of $71.10 per barrel.
This window’s increase in price has been largely in response to the rise in COVID-19 cases propelled by the Delta variant in parts of Europe and amid warnings of a dense outbreak in the United States. 
For the first time in two years, the price of Brent reached the $75-mark at the end of the pricing window. The global crude demand is rebounding as the summer driving season begins and economies reopen from restrictions in mobility.
This is particularly the case, as road and airline travel continue to increase.
The increase in Brent crude prices has also been attributed to the tightening of the physical crude supply in parts of Europe, Asia and the Middle East, as a result of the dynamics in spread between the regional benchmarks within the period.
The July 1st OPEC+ meeting to decide on the production policy for August is also expected to offset the markets, as we go into the month of July.
Gasoline and gasoil prices, as monitored on Standard and Poor’s global Platts platform, show that the prices of international commodities gasoline (petrol) and gasoil (diesel) experienced marginal differences within the period.
Gasoline saw an increase in price by 3.47% to close the window at $694.78 per metric tonne from an earlier $671.45 per metric tonne in the previous window.
Gasoil price also increased by 3.53% to close trading at $597.30 per metric tonne from the earlier window's price of $576.89 per metric tonne. 
Data collated by IES’ Economic Desk from the Foreign Exchange (Forex) market shows the cedi maintained its stability, still trading at GH¢5.77 to the US dollar.
South Africa has been added to Nigeria’s ‘red list’ of countries for arriving passengers. Nigeria took the decision because of the covid19 Delta variant in South Africa.
Travelers who visited South Africa in the past 14 days are now banned from entering Nigeria. 
Nigerian passport holders and residents coming from South Africa have to undergo a seven-day quarantine.
Brazil and Turkey are also on the list.
The killing of Kaaka Mohammed is unfortunate and regrettable. 
My condolence to the family and may his soul Rest In Peace. 
But quickly, some have started pointing accusing fingers at the current regime with others expressing the hope that this shouldn’t be state-sponsored. 
This is also not too good, as it would not allow proper investigations to be undertaken. 
Looking at the official government responses to the “Fix The Country”, agitation, I doubt whether this killing may be sanctioned by the state, even though I am also very much aware that, in our kind of nauseating politics, everything may be possible, including turning a man into a woman and vice versa. 
Government met the agitators to try and calm them down. 
Later, the agitations compelled, at least, two pressers to explain what government is doing to fix the country.
But of course, there are the hawks within the regime, who demonstrated intolerance by calling the bluff of the agitators and asking them to first fix themselves. 
Then, we have our Police Service, that typically tried to frustrate the intentions of the agitators to demonstrate, using very nonsensical explanations of Covid as basis, when they could not prevent or disperse the mammoth crowd at Sir John’s funeral. 
These things make any attempt to link the state to abuses, including murder of an agitator, easy and plausible, even though skepticisms can be entertained because of the absence of watertight evidence.
We must also know, and not be oblivious of the fact that sometimes, our nasty and very dirty politics may push individuals outside government, to carry out such abuses, just for the purposes of deepening agitations and making governments unpopular. 
Again, there is no evidence to support this, in the case of Kaaka’s death. 
But as we analyze the situation, through the lenses of fairness and objectivity, we must do so broadly, to cover all probabilities.
For the ignorant and unprofessional soldiers who went to kill two more human beings, I won’t blame them too much. 
We must blame their mode of recruitment and training. 
Regimes would continue to suffer even more monumental embarrassments from unprofessional security forces, so long as recruitments into these agencies are politicized and based not on meritocracy was part of the 2000 Mobrowa Struggle and I played an active role, sometimes as the “Divine Drummer” for our group. 
We saw the professional manner with which the police and the soldiers handled us even when they had to physically stop us for being unruly. 
Who squats to shoot when demonstrations are on going? 
What was he aiming at? Human being or “beela”? 
Is that how to shoot to disperse? 
How was this soldier recruited? 
Who hired him? Who trained him? 
He is indeed a square peg in a round hole, wearing a military camouflage attire. 
Elsewhere, I am touting our democratic credentials to some scholars and African leaders. 
But behind the scenes, they are pointing these abuses to contradict my claims about Ghana’s drive towards democratic maturity. 
The point is, the kind of unbridled hawkish-intolerance exhibited by some elements within regimes and the childish manner with which our security agencies act in dealing with demonstrators, constitute a severe blot on the maturation of our democratization process. 
Are Ghanaian demonstrators immune to tear-gas? 
How about the hot water canons and rubber billets? 
Government may want to fire some security heads to send a certain signal that would compel and elicit highly professional conduct of our security agencies when it comes to crowd management and dealing with demonstrators. Government may also want to send top security brass to school again for them to be socialized in the dogmas of the kind of relational competence they need, to talk agitators out of demonstration, if need be, rather than the very cheap and democratically infantile way of quickly running to court, to seek injunction. 
This only annoys and presents a needless potential recipe for revolt.  
The President may have to personally intervene to give the needed assurances, bring peace and finality to this impasse. 
The security agencies have lost credibility in the sight of the agitators and demonstrators. 
The near-docility of our Peace Council has also created a certain legitimacy deficit that may make the Council ineffective in intervening. Given these challenges, the President’s personal intervention may be helpful and this must be done in a timeous manner.
19-year-old Thomas Amoani, a graduate of the Adeiso Presbyterian Senior High School who was offered a full scholarship by the Ghana Scholarships Secretariat has expressed his appreciation to the government of President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo Addo.
Thomas Amoani, who had eight A‘s in last year’s West Africa Secondary School Certificate Examination was immediately offered a scholarship to study at the prestigious Brunel University in London after a directive to the Registrar of the Secretariat, Mr Kingsley Agyemang.
The 19-year-old boy, from Asuaba, near Adeiso and from a very poor background, will be studying Economics and Business Finance for his bachelor’s degree.
The story of the former student of the Adeiso SHS made headlines after he was interviewed by a news portal. Sharing his story, Thomas Amoani recounted how he used to trek for about 12 kilometres to school.
This caught the attention of His Excellency President Akufo-Addo who immediately asked that he be offered a full scholarship.
During a short media engagement held for him prior to his departure at the Scholarship Secretariat, the Registrar said the honour done Thomas by the President will go a long way to motivate others to also strive hard academically irrespective of their background.
“I foresee a lot of Thomases coming up and I can assure them that the Scholarships Secretariat will be there to offer them the needed support. Thomas’ story should be a motivation to others like him. And I must commend President Akufo-Addo for his swift intervention,” Mr. Agyemang said.
Arriving at the university campus, Thomas Amoani, who could not hide his joy says he is ready to raise the flag of Ghana high and will not let the country down.
“I never imagined I will be given such an opportunity by Mr. President through the hardworking Registrar. I am very grateful for the confidence reposed in me. I will not fail my country Ghana,” he said.
Brunel University London is a public research university located in the Uxbridge area of London, England. Founded in 1966 and named after the Victorian engineer Isambard Kingdom Brunel, it is ranked as the 93rd best university worldwide in the field of engineering and technology, 32nd among European institutions and 11th among British institutions according to THES world rankings.
There is no problem with the Chief Justice, Justice Kwasi Anin Yeboah filing a disciplinary complaint against legal practitioner and Member of Parliament for Bolgatanga East, Dr Dominic Akuritinga Ayine at the General Legal Council (GLC).
According to private legal practitioner and former Member of Parliament for Zebilla, Mr John Ndebugre, the arguments being made by the National Democratic Congress (NDC) and other people against the complaint are issues, which should be dealt with when Dr Ayine appears before the Disciplinary Committee of the General Legal Council (GLC).
"I think he [Chief Justice] was the proper person to initiate a complaint because the statement that Dr Ayine made which resulted in this complaint was that, in summary, his confidence in the independence of the judiciary has been shaken somehow by the manner in which the presidential election petition was handled or determined."
The Chief Justice has reported lawyer Dr Dominic Akuritinga Ayine to the Disciplinary Committee of the GLC for statements he allegedly made during a panel discussion on Presidential Election Petitions and their impact on Africa's Democracy.
Dr. Ayine has been accused of questioning the independence of the Judiciary due to the manner the Supreme Court adjudicated the 2020 presidential election petition.
The petition says Dr. Ayine’s basis for his assertion during the discussion is the Supreme Court's failure to apply the rules of procedure as well as the consistent and continuous dismissal of the petitioner's applications or reliefs.
“These comments are made against the backdrop of the Supreme Court discharging Dr. Ayine on a charge of contempt for similar comments made against members of the Supreme Court during the Election Petition hearing. Dr. Ayine apologized profusely when he appeared before the Court on the Contempt charge and admitted to having made comments which were unbecoming of a Lawyer of his standing and a former Deputy Attorney-General."
Dr. Ayine, in his eleven-paged response to the CJ's complaint, is insisting that his comments did not attack the reputation of the justices who sat on the election petition case.
He insists that his comments were in good faith.
“As I have stated in this response, as a lawyer, I have a special responsibility to engage in criticism of the work of the judiciary. By reason of my training and experience, I am better placed than most of my fellow citizens to point out deficiencies in judgments and in the performance by the judiciary of its core constitutional mandate.”
He further posited that his comments were within the confines of fair and temperate speech.
The main opposition political party, the National Democratic Congress (NDC) at a press conference in Accra on Monday asked the Chief Justice to withdraw his disciplinary complaint against Dr Ayine.
Disagreeing with positions that the Chief Justice should withdraw the complaint and that he has no locus to file such a complaint, Mr Ndebugre said Dr Ayine was not talking about an individual member of the panel or the members of the panel who were just seven. He wasn't talking about combination of them. He talked about the whole judiciary and the Chief Justice is the head of the judiciary and therefore he was the proper person to lay the complaint.
Speaking in a radio interview monitored by Graphic Online on Accra based Citi FM on Tuesday evening (June 22, 2021), Mr Ndebugre said: "I think that there is no problem about the Chief Justice laying the complaint."
Comparing that to what happened in 1996 - the Republic against Mensah Bonsu, Stephen Quarcoo and Tommy Thompson - in that case Mensah Bonsu attacked an individual judge, Justice Abban and therefore he made the complaint and then the Attorney-General took it up from there and prosecuted the matter on behalf of the judiciary or the court.
No problem about CJ filing complaint
"So I think that there is no problem about the Chief Justice laying the complaint.
The other matter is that, Dominic Ayine was Deputy Attorney-General, and he and his boss at that time took people to the criminal court, proceeding to the civil court... so if the Attorney-General approves the prosecution of a person, can somebody say that no, the person was expressing freedom of speech... therefore he should not be sent to court. 
No, you are to go to the court and make your case, and state your case, and say that you were not guilty of the offence charged. 
So in the same measure, the Chief Justice thinks that the statement was untoward so far as the independence of the judiciary is concerned. 
So you go there, all those arguments that are being bandied about now, both by the NDC and Dr Ayine himself are matters that should be at the Disciplinary Committee," Mr Ndebugre added.
Insisting that he does not want to discuss the merits, he maintained that there are two forms, it is like contempt, whiles the matter is still pending, which is you are interfering with the administration of justice if you make prejudicial statements whiles the case is still pending, then after the judgment has been given and you make statements that scandalise the courts, you can be pursued for that.
If you lose a case in court, you can say that you don't agree, "but to say that... I say that I don't want to discuss the merits, all I'm doing now is that I don't agree with the position that because in the view of the political party, he [Dr Ayine] was expressing his right to free expression and therefore the matter should not be pursued. I don't agree."
"The point is that you must go to the Disciplinary Committee and state there that you were exercising your right to free expression, but you cannot say that the Chief Justice cannot make a complaint, he is the head of the judiciary, and you say your confidence in the judiciary has been dampened because of the way the case was handled. So he should go there [GLC], and point out those aspects of the handling of the case that led him to the conclusion that the judiciary in Ghana is not independent."
Asked about the notion that the Chief Justice chairs the GLC and therefore the Disciplinary Committee, is a sub-committee of his court and therefore he was sending Ayine to his own "court" to be tried, Mr Ndebugre replied, "are you saying that those who constitute the Disciplinary Committee are robots, and that they are going to take instructions from the Chief Justice. When you do these things, you don't help the development of our democracy. Freedom of speech does not mean that you can just say whatever you like."
He used the Parliamentary Disciplinary Committee where the legislature has been dragging people there, "have those people not been expressing their views or expressing their rights to free speech. If you go and say that errh! Parliamentarians are all corrupt without any evidence, you will be dragged to Privileges Committee... why are you saying that you cannot be questioned in another forum?
"I'm not saying that the Chief Justice is right or wrong. 
All I'm saying is that the Chief Justice has made a complaint, as far as I am concerned he is the right person to make the complaint because the statement was against the judiciary, the independence of the judiciary, and he is the head of the judiciary and he has to come forward with a complaint. 
The complaint doesn't mean that you have been condemned, you are to go there and make all the arguments that you are making with press conferences and so on, and then the matter will be determined. 
It is only when you go there and there is evidence of bias, that you can start complaining but I think at this stage, it is premature and I'll advise Ayine to try and go to the Disciplinary Committee and make his case, it is in their interest for them to go and prove the Chief Justice wrong."
The National Peace Council (NPC) has initiated measures to deepen national unity by tackling the polarisation of the country in the aftermath of last year’s general election.
According to the council, political polarisation was a major issue that had the potential to bring about a crisis situation, hence the need to nip it in the bud.
The NPC said this at a dialogue for political parties and other stakeholders in Ada in the Greater Accra Region.
The dialogue, dubbed: “Countering post-2020 election violence and building consensus for greater political tolerance in Ghana”, was supported by the Commonwealth Secretariat and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
The objective was to build concensus among stakeholders to strengthen mechanisms for greater national cohesion, political tolerance, peace and nation-building.
Participants included the Secretary-General of the Commonwealth Secretariat, the Rt Hon. Patricia Scotland; the UNDP Resident Representative, Dr Angela Lusigi; the ministers of Information, Mr Kojo Oppong Nkrumah; the Interior, Mr Ambrose Dery, and National Security, Mr Albert Kan-Dapaah.
Others were a Deputy Chairperson of the Electoral Commission, Dr Eric Bossman Asare; a representative of the Inspector-General of Police, some executive members of the National Democratic Congress, the New Patriotic Party, the Convention People's Party, faith-based organisations, traditional rulers and civil society organisations.
Mr Dery said notwithstanding the security strategies that were put in place ahead of the December general election, there were still some pockets of violent incidents which claimed some lives and led to the destruction to property.
He said 32 violent incidents were recorded by the police in five constituencies across the country, out of which six persons died.
Mr Dery said the government would not relent in its effort to get those behind the disturbances to face prosecution.
For his part, Mr Kan-Dapaah said political tolerance and consensus building remained critical ingredients for the social, economic and political advancement of the country.
The Rt Hon. Scotland commended the people of Ghana for the peaceful manner in which they engaged in political discourse in the country, which she said was acknowledged by the entire Commonwealth family.
According to her, Ghana had historically led the way in democracy, which she said was "a heavy burden on the people’s shoulders, but it’s a burden that the people have carried with pride. We have always hoped in Ghana".
She, however, called for the inclusion of more women and the youth in policy formulation in the country.
The Chairman of the NPC, Rev. Dr Ernest Adu-Gyamfi, said his outfit was working at strengthening mechanisms for inter- and intra-party dialogue to deepen trust and confidence in key state institutions responsible for elections.
He expressed the hope that the issues discussed would significantly contribute to the healing of wounds created in the aftermath of the 2020 elections.
The Chief Servant of Transeco Minerals and Mining, Mr. Godwin Amarh has constructed a six-unit classroom block at Akyem Ampapatia in the Atiwa West District of the Eastern Region.
The classroom block, estimated at a cost of GH¢295,000 forms part of the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR).
Speaking at the inauguration, Mr Amarh underscored the need to give good and quality education to children at lower levels as it helps to give them strong foundation in education.
He said the role of education in every country’s development cannot be undermined, hence the reason his company prioritizes education.
“We at Transeco Mining and Minerals Company have decided to ensure that children in communities where we operate are exposed to the best of teaching and learning environments at the lower levels of education. That is why we have made education a top priority on our corporate social responsibility.
I’m excited to be back at Ampapatia to commission this school. We all know how important education is to the growth of individuals and the country. In order to have brilliant students at higher levels of education, they must first have a strong foundation that is why we have built this Kindergarten”, he said.
Mr. Amarh said the school is also an appreciation to the chiefs and people of Ampapatia who have maintained a healthy relationship with the company since they started their operations in the community.
Contrary to rumors and wild speculations that government has placed a ban on mining activities in the country, Mr. Amarh debunked the rumours and described it as not just inaccurate but false.
According to him, government has rather introduced new measures, policies and programmes aimed at making small scale mining productive and not destructive.
“Government has not banned activities of miners but rather categorized areas close to water bodies and forest reserves as red zones where no individual or company should mine. So what government is saying is that small scale miners should move away from the red zones. So anyone who does contrary to the directive by government will be dealt with by the laws of the country”, Mr. Amarh said.
He therefore advised small scale miners to go work but ensure that they mine at designated areas.
Mr. Amarh who also doubles as the General Secretary of the Ghana National Association of Small Scale Miners (GNASSM) admonished members of the group to impact positively on communities where they have concessions.
He said small scale miners must work to change the narrative that they are destroyers who only take from communities and give nothing back.
He said although many small scale miners are already doing that, there remains more to be done.
“Our sector employs a lot of people in communities where we operate. We must therefore work assiduously to leave a footprint. I know a lot of our members who have built schools and others have helped communities get electricity. We must push those stories out there to change the narrative that small scale miners only destroy’, he advised.
The Rebecca Foundation has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Abdul Samad Rabiu Africa Initiative (ASR Africa) for a grant of $500,000.
The grant will be drawn from ASR Africa’s annual $100 million Africa Fund for Social Development and Renewal to support the Rebecca Foundation’s education initiative.
Speaking at the meeting, the Managing Director of ASR Africa, Mr Ubon Udoh, commended the foundation for its commitment to the welfare of women and children in the country.
He also praised the foundation for its adherence to good corporate governance and practices which have enabled the foundation to deliver infrastructure and services in the areas of education, health and women’s economic empowerment.
"We did our homework and identified the Rebecca Foundation as one of the most reputable charities in Ghana, which encouraged ASR Africa to support the Rebecca Foundation.” he said.
The Executive Director of the Foundation, Mrs Rebecca Akufo-Addo, thanked ASR Africa for the support to the foundation.
She pledged the commitment of the foundation to utilise the grant to benefit the education of children in the country.
The UK has denied involvement in the arrest and extradition of Nnamdi Kanu, who leads a banned group seeking a breakaway state in south-eastern Nigeria, where the ethnic Igbo people form the majority.
Mr Kanu, who holds British and Nigerian citizenship, was detained on Sunday with the help of Interpol and flown back to Nigeria, according to the attorney general.
He faces treason-related charges in Nigeria, but fled the country in 2017 while on bail.
There has been speculation that he might have been arrested in the UK, where it is believed he was mainly based.
“We can confirm that Nnamdi Kanu was not arrested in the UK for extradition purposes,’’ a British High Commission spokesperson told the BBC.
He is currently in the custody of Nigeria’s secret police after a brief court appearance on Tuesday.
His trial is expected to resume on 26 July.
The 53-year-old came to prominence in 2009 when he started Radio Biafra and broadcast to Nigeria from London, using the platform to call for Biafran independence and urging his followers to take up arms against the Nigerian state.
Five years later, he founded the Indigenous People of Biafra (Ipob), which has since been labelled a terrorist organisation by the Nigerian authorities.
Mr Kanu's initial arrest in 2015 triggered massive protests.
I was excited when I saw the Independence Square being renovated late last year.
The renovation, comprising painting and concrete works, was meant to prepare the Square for the funeral rites of former President Jerry John Rawlings.
The Institute of Directors-Ghana (IoD-Gh) has commended the Bank of Ghana (BoG) for taking significant steps to promote good corporate governance in the country.
It has also called for stronger collaboration between the institute and the bank to help promote proper governance of companies in the country.
During a courtesy by the institute on the management of BoG, the President of IoD-Gh, Mr Rockson Kwesi Dogbegah, eulogised the Governor of the central bank, Dr Ernest Addison, for providing transformational leadership in reforming the financial services sector.
He said the effort by BoG led by Dr Addison had led to a vibrant and resilient banking sector.
A statement from the institute said the visit was to commend the bank for its significant role in promoting the culture of good corporate governance in Ghana and to seek mutually beneficial relationships between BoG and the institute.
Speaking on the strategic projects of the IoD-Gh, Mr Dogbegah said the IoD-Gh is developing a charter aimed at setting standards for the practice of corporate governance in Ghana.
He indicated that the development of a national governance code was another key strategic project to be undertaken by the institute.
He disclosed that the institute had established the ongoing annual corporate governance excellence awards as part of its strategic efforts to celebrate the achievements of outstanding individual personalities and corporate organisations that have represented excellence in leadership and corporate governance and have made significant contributions to the socioeconomic development of Ghana.
He added that the Institute, working in collaboration with key stakeholders, had championed the formation of the Ghana Association of Integrated Thinking and Reporting aimed at stimulating a strategic and sustainable way of value creation and reporting by organisations.
BoG Governor stated that corporate governance played an important role in the financial sector.
According to him, corporate governance breaches, overbearing shareholder behaviour and related-party transactional breaches as some of the factors that led to the failure of some banks in the financial sector and their consequent resolution.
He reiterated the need for the Ghanaian society to uphold good corporate governance practices and pledged the bank’s support for the work of the institute, especially as events in the banking sector have a rippling effect on the Ghanaian economic sector.
Arteta must deliver next season
As I have already mentioned, Arsenal do not intend to sack Mikel Arteta and the club management will back him to turn the Gunners around next season.
No one can say for certain if Arsenal have made the right decision but the club intends to bring in more talented players this summer.
Serious questions are being asked about the manager’s ability and even in his own dressing room players are looking at him and wondering if he is the right man for the job.
At 39 years-of-age Arteta has a reputation, built alongside Pep Guardiola, as a brilliant coach.
However, after seventeen months in charge the fortunes of Arsenal have not progressed and many would argue that the team performances are inferior to those of Unai Emery, the man he replaced and who knocked him out of the Europa League.
Arteta captained Arsenal and was welcomed by the fans as their new champion but they are getting restless and agitated as they watch Chelsea and Tottenham move further ahead.
The Super League disaster will not be forgotten for a long time
but I can tell you that the Kroenke owners are going nowhere
so it is up to Arteta to mend bridges, build a strong team and get his tactics right next season otherwise the proud Gunners could well crash and burn.
De Gea won’t accept being No2
Despite Manchester United goalkeeper David De Gea having a contract until 2023 his agents are testing the waters to see which clubs would be interested in signing him.
I am hearing from inside Old Trafford that despite being on good terms with current No1 Dean Henderson, De Gea will not sit back and accept a role on the bench for much longer.
I am picking up interest from Atletico Madrid, Paris Saint Germain and Real Madrid.
The 30-year-old is arguably at the peak of his career although some inside the club believe he has declined slightly over the past two years.
Manager Solskjaer said, “Goalkeeper departments are a very tight knit group.
They work in preparation, they have different gym sessions, individual sessions to the rest of the squad and they stay together more.
Naturally they create a bond and the spirit in the goalkeeping department has been top.
It’s a healthy competition.”
I am sure the coach is right however if De Gea doesn’t regain recognition for the No1 stitched onto the back of his shirt and is left on the bench in crucial games, I am reliably informed he will move out of Old Trafford.
I take West Brom to bounce back yet again
After one season back in the Premier League we again say goodbye to West Bromwich Albion.
The key to yet another quick bounce back from the Championship will be whether or not fire-fighting manager Sam Allardyce can be persuaded to stay.
He is disappointed to have lost his reputation as never having been relegated with any club and the board at West Brom have a lot of work to do if they want to keep him.
Ainsley Maitland-Niles, Conor Gallagher and Okay Yokuslu will return to their parent clubs after being on loan but Matheus Pereira, Callum Robinson, Hal Robson-Kanu and Karlan Grant can impress in the lower league.
Fastest man at City
Who is the fastest player in the Manchester City squad?
No, it isn’t Raheem Sterling.
Manager Pep Guardiola set up a practice whereby each player had to control the ball and sprint 10 yards.
There are some very fast movers in the City squad but Gabriel Jesus proved he was the fastest.
The best is yet to come from Havertz
Thomas Tuchel has been singing the praises of Kai Havertz and pointed to his two goals recently scored against Fulham.
Tuchel recognises that since Kai arrived at Stamford Bridge from Bayer Leverkusen, things have not gone well for the German.
Moving from a foreign country and having to handle lockdown restrictions made things difficult and of course he caught Covid-19 and had to battle back to fitness.
The upcoming Champions League final and the next pre-season, Tuchel believes, will show the best of the attacking midfielder and forward.
Solskjaer is turning United into winners again
Manchester United might have big problems with the fans actively showing aggression  towards the owners but inside the club there is a new belief, a new harmony and renewed confidence that they can achieve.
The man responsible is Ole Gunner Solskjaer and after speaking with many United staff and supporters this week, everyone recognises that it is time to praise the manager for achieving so much in the last eighteen months.
Solskjaer paved the way to sign Bruno Fernandes and Edinson Cavani and both have proven to be excellent additions to United’s line-up.
Cavani has confirmed that he is staying for another season and it is mainly his belief in Solskjaer which has persuaded him.
Paul Pogba looks settled and happy and his relationship with the manager is at an all-time high.
When United fall behind in a matches these days, they get back up, fight and more often than not they win.
There is one thing to thank out-going Executive Vice-Chairman Ed Woodward for and that is allowing Solskjaer time to succeed in the job, survive the rough patches and turn his players into winners.
Solskjaer is now the most important and the strongest foundation brick of the revitalised United and critics, staff and fans believe this is the beginning of a golden era for the Reds.
Tell-tale sign
Kane thinking about leaving
I noticed a significant silence during the match against Leeds at the weekend.
Harry Kane usually runs as much, if not more, than any other player and constantly barks out orders and instructions to other players to play more effectively.
Against Leeds he was very quiet and more so than I think I have ever seen him.
I suspect this is a tell-tale sign that Harry is seriously doubting his tenure at Spurs and is already looking for a way out.
Wolves desperate for a striker
Nuno Espirito Santos has at last recognised that during the transfer window he must prioritise signing a new striker.
Winger Pedro Neto and midfielder Ruben Neves are the leading scorers which pinpoints the weakness in Wolves strike force.
Fabio Silva and Raul Jimenez are next on the list however Jimenez has been out of action since November after fracturing his skull.
Wolves have 13 goals less this season than last year.
The Wolves board have promised Nuno money to sign a proven goalscorer.
Jimenez by the way will be told on May 18th if he is medically safe to play in the final two games of this season.
He has been training for two months but was banned from heading the ball and having physical contact with his teammates.
Sir Alex praises McTominay
When the great Sir Alex Ferguson speaks about Manchester United he is always worth listening to.
His admiration for Scott McTominay is immense and the master says the midfielder should automatically play in every United game.
“Scott McTominay is now emerging as one of United’s big players,” Sir Alex said.
“When you watch United pick their team for an important game, McTominay’s name is in it.
He’s a good character and a great trainer.
I signed him when he was just a kid of seven or eight years of age
and he was actually a centre-forward.”
What higher praise can a player receive.
Three astonishing football facts…
*Manchester United have not lost an away game in the PL for a year and four months!
*If they do not win their next game, Sheffield United will become the first team since the 1904-05 season to have gone without winning two consecutive games.
Dr Madzorera said the health ministry should also raise awareness about the disease, as well as make phone calls in all parts of the country so that people can call at any time to talk about the disease.
They are also advocating for hygienic hygiene check-ups, rather than waiting for a suspected antibody to take them to the hospital.
Caps United chairman Lewis Uriri says they have resolved the problems facing their club and the striking players have begun preparations for their Castle Premier Soccer League matches.
Speaking to Studio 7, Uriri said the players were given their outstanding bonus money.
But he said last month's salaries would be paid to players soon. He also mentioned that there were some unnamed people who were influencing Caps United players to stop playing football.
Uriri said he had spoken to the players and also said the reason for the delay in paying the players was that things were difficult for everyone in the country and that the real government had not paid last year's bonuses.
Sexual rights activists say abortion laws need to be amended to keep up with the times and to protect the lives of girls and women.
Sayendisa Ndlovu of SayWhat says the public is unaware of the abortion law and says it is important for the government to publicize the law.
Ndlovu told Studio 7 that it was important to amend the law as it was written long ago. He said the law needed to be amended to add other factors that could lead to a miscarriage.
Ndlovu said such factors as mental illness, HIV / AIDS or disability were some of the factors that could be considered for abortion.
Ndlovu also explained that the law as it stands does not limit public hospitals to public abortion services and did not require a child nurse or doctor to abort a person legally.
Ms. Tendaishe Changamire, a civil rights activist under the Right Here Right Now program, has also called for the law to be amended to increase the risk of abortion.
Ms. Changamire says many studies show that young girls are losing their lives through abortions.
Although many young people are pushing for the law to be amended, some older women are opposed to it, saying abortion law should not make abortion more acceptable, saying it will make young people less respectful of life.
The Termination of Pregnancy Act was enacted by a parliament in 1977 before the country gained full independence.
Police have arrested several members of the MDC-T led by Nelson Chamisa as they tried to enter the party's Harare headquarters at Morgan Tsvangirai House.
This came after the capture of the center by the MDC faction led by Ms Thokozani Khupe.
Ms Khupe has been declared by the Supreme Court to hold office following Morgan Tsvangirai's death two years ago.
Police in custody include Chamisa's two deputies, Tendai Biti and Lynett Karenyi Kore, as well as David Chimhini, Lovemore Chinoputsa, Gladys Hlatywayo and others.
The detainees were said to be on their way to the party's headquarters, where they were surrounded by armed police.
Studio7 has not been able to hear from the police how many people have been arrested, and what charges have been leveled against them as police spokesman Paul Nyathi was not answering his phone.
Chamisa's MDC spokesperson, Fadzai Mahere, said he was shocked by the arrests.
The situation in the MDC is tense following a Supreme Court ruling this year that ruled that Chamisa and Ms Khupe's congresses were unconstitutional, and that Congress should be held at a time when Ms Khupe is the caretaker incumbent.
Following the ruling, Ms Khupe fired four members of parliament and the senate, saying the people were no longer representing the interests of their party.
Dismissed are Thabitha Khumalo, Prosper Mutseyami, Lilian Timveous and Charlton Hwende.
Some Zimbabweans in various countries say they were forced to leave the country because of the rule of Robert Mugabe, who they say is ruling with an ax.
A political scientist who teaches at Bergen University in Norway, and a member of the Zimbabwe Yibuya / Mayibuye Zimbabwe organization, Dr Victor Chimhutu, says that although Mr Mugabe was seen as a champion of African unity, one Zimbabwean family did not view him that way.
Dr Chimhutu says Mr Mugabe's alliance with other African leaders is one of the reasons he has gained so much respect from African leaders.
They say Mr. Mugabe will also be remembered for insulting and expressing his views on the West and his criticism of the leaders of countries such as the United States and Britain.
Mr Mugabe allegedly did not beat the dogs and hid the culprit if members of his Zanu PF party defected, or even insulted opposition parties.
Mr Mugabe is expected to be laid to rest on Sunday, although his whereabouts have not yet been announced.
Doctors and nurses working in public hospitals have told the government they will stop working at the beginning of next month if they are not paid before the end of December.
The president of the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association, Fortune Nyamande, who said his organization was affiliated with the Zimbabwe Nurses Association, had written a letter to the government informing them of the move.
Dr Nyamande said he had written to the government informing him of his strike from January 1 next year.
They say they and nurses in government hospitals have taken this step on the grounds of lack of transportation costs as they have not yet received their monthly salaries as well as bonus payments promised by the government.
Dr Nyamande also criticized the government's alleged use of the media to discredit traditional newspapers.
Finance Minister Patrick Chinamasa has already announced that the government will not be able to pay some of its employees this year due to a lack of funds.
"Mr Chinamasa has used the newspapers to announce the change in our pay dates, so we will use the same methods," Dr Nyamande said.
The coaches, who were due to receive their pay on Monday, have been announced on Tuesday, but the general public, including doctors and nurses, are expected to receive their pay on January 5 next year.
But many civil servants who spoke to Studio 7 said they were not confident they would get their money back on the new deadlines.
We have not been able to contact the Minister of Health, David Parirenyatwa, and the Minister of Labor, Priscah Mupfumira, to find out what steps they will take to prevent a strike.
The main opposition MDC party has complained that its members are being harassed by the police.
The Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights says 47 people have been arrested in recent days, mostly MDC supporters and seven other students at Allen Wilson School in Harare for allegedly protesting illegally.
Other detainees include Makomborero Haruzivishe, a former student leader from ZINASU, who appeared in court today, along with his colleague Allan Moyo.
We were unable to reach the police spokesperson, Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi, as their phone was unanswered.
Lawyer Innocent Gonese, the MDC's legal adviser, said Haruzivishe and Moyo would return to court on Monday to discuss the court's decision.
The United Nations World Health Organization (WHO) has declared China that the corona virus, which has killed 233 people in China, has become a global epidemic.
In the last two days alone, about 2,000 people are estimated to have been infected with the corona virus and 9,800 have been infected worldwide in 244 countries.
WHO chief Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that while they were confident of China's efforts to prevent the disease, they feared that if it spread to other parts of the world, it could kill more people.
Health Minister Dr Obadiah Moyo says Zimbabwe is testing more than 200 people from China or countries with a corona virus infection.
People under investigation in Zimbabwe are being held at their home for 14 days.
Former health minister Dr Henry Madzorera says Zimbabwe needs more money to prevent the spread of the disease.
The body of former president Robert Mugabe will arrive in Harare on Wednesday afternoon and his funeral will be announced.
This was announced by the Minister of Information, Ms Monica Mutsvangwa, after a cabinet meeting.
Ms Mutsvangwa said government committees were preparing for Mr Mugabe's funeral.
Asked why it was taking so long to talk about Mugabe's funeral, Mutsvangwa and Foreign Affairs Minister Sibusiso Moyo said it was "unusual" that he would announce his funeral arrangements after the Mugabe family in Singapore arrived in the country.
He said the government and President Mugabe's family were working together.
Meanwhile, King Katizagombo's spokesman, Gibson Jenami, said there was no longer any controversy over Mugabe's funeral as the government, led by Emmerson Mnangagwa, was at the forefront of the process.
Meanwhile, Major General Trust Mugoba, who also passed away last week, will be laid to rest on Wednesday at the Heroes Acre burial ground in Harare.
In other news, the government says 178 Zimbabweans have been affected by the violence in South Africa and that two Zimbabweans have died in the violence.
Moyo said the government was planning to bring the victims home with the bodies.
The government also claims that health workers, including doctors, have been paid an additional 60 percent of their benefits, and today the cabinet has decided that the health and finance ministry will sit down to ensure that the workers are paid fairly.
Health Minister, Dr Obadiah Moyo, has said he will sit down with the finance ministry to ensure that the cabinet resolution is implemented.
Doctors went on strike last week complaining that their salaries were too low.
An organization formed to commemorate human rights activists and former Occupy Africa Unity Square leader Itai Dzamara, the Itai Dzamara Trust, today celebrated International Women's Day.
The ceremony was held in Highfield where women and girls who attended the event were provided with follow-up equipment or sanitary pads and more.
A spokesman for the Dzamara family who is also a member of the board of the Itai Dzamara Trust, Mr Partson Dzamara, told Studio 7 that he saw fit to show love to women this month, the month of his brother Itai's disappearance five years ago.
He said although his brother was involved in politics, human rights and journalism, he did it all out of love and the Itai Dzamara Trust will continue to be kind to him.
He said his organization had launched its operation in the village of Highfields because it was the birthplace of Itai but said they would go elsewhere to help women and the poor with knowledge and experience in many areas including law, education and health.
Among the participants in today's event was Rememberance Zuze, who said that although Mr Dzamara had not yet been found, he was happy with the actions of the organization that monitors his life.
An unnamed girl told Studio 7 that she has benefited a lot today.
Meanwhile, Partson Dzamara has announced that a five-year anniversary rally for his brother abducted by unknown individuals in Glen View will be held on Tuesday in Harare.
He said so far they did not know the whereabouts of his brother or whether he was alive.
He said police, human rights activists, the Zimbabwe Human Rights Commission and others who worked with Itai Dzamara were among those invited to the event.
As the world celebrates refugee day, tomorrow, some Zimbabweans living as refugees in South Africa say there is nothing to celebrate as South Africa is in dire straits.
Some Zimbabweans say South Africa does not respect the agreements it has signed with organizations such as the United Nations in respecting the rights of refugees.
The secretary general of the Zimbabwe Migrant Support Network, Shelton Chiyangwa, told Studio 7 that although refugee day is important, South African refugees are being held hostage.
Chiyangwa said the Zimbabwean family living in South Africa was also the main victims.
He added that his organization was working with Zimbabweans and other countries to help them obtain travel documents
Zimbabwe Exemption Permits vice-chairwoman Gladys Mangwende said her organization was interested in the refugee awareness program but was concerned about the lack of human rights.
The chairman of Human Rights Watch in North Africa, Dewa Mavhinga, says refugee day is important in South Africa as there are many Zimbabweans living as refugees.
Mr Mavhinga went on to urge the South African government to relax the rules, especially in the area of ​​immigration.
Another Zimbabwean, George Manyika, also backed Mavhinga's statement.
Gabriel Shumba, head of the Zimbabwe Exiles Forum, has called on the United Nations, the AU and SADC to take a closer look at the treatment of refugees by SA, especially Zimbabweans.
The Lions also appealed to South Africa's interior minister, Aaron Motseledi, to relax his department's rules so that refugees do not have to struggle to obtain documents.
He urged human rights groups to work with his organization to fight for the rights of all refugees.
One of the refugees, Francis Mukono, said he did not see the importance of refugee day as the situation in South Africa was difficult.
Another refugee, Steven Chiweshe, also said he was unaware of the stabbing.
Mandela Madumise, South Africa's director general of refugee affairs, said his department had applied to the United Nations Human Rights Council for assistance in resolving the problems they were facing in the department.
Madumise said by the end of next month, his department would know what needs to be done to address these issues.
It is estimated that more than three million Zimbabweans have fled South Africa to South Africa, accusing the government of harassment.
But the Zimbabwean government says some people have fled to the countryside in search of better pastures.
Hospital staff, including nurses and doctors, have been on strike for more than 33 days, saying their salaries were not enough to go to work without any hope of a solution.
The situation in public hospitals is tense, with some patients being sent home without treatment.
The situation in hospitals is expected to worsen as the Senior Health Doctors Association has already announced that if the financial issues and strikes of the junior and senior doctors are not resolved by them they will also go on strike. Spokesman for the medical association Dr Aaron Musara told Studio 7 that things were not going well in the hospitals.
Dr Musara said although he had informed the government of his intention to step down through letters to various departments, he had not received a response.
Nurses in public hospitals are not going to work and are demanding that the government pay them their salaries with the US money they received in October 2018 as well as provide them with equipment to protect themselves from illness when they are on duty.
The president of the Zimbabwe Nurses Association, ZINA, Enock Dongo, says talks with the government are a goat's head.
Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association (ZHDA) spokesperson Dr Tapiwa Mungofa also said that the lack of access to health care services by the government has left patients without treatment.
Mr Mungofa also said that at the time the children's nurses went on strike, many of their members were at home as a precautionary measure against the transmission of COVID-19 to self quarantine.
Studio 7 was unable to hear the government's side of the story to address the grievances of health workers as former health minister Professor Amon Murwira was unresponsive to his phone call.
But last week, Mr Murwira announced that he had started a conversation with a nurse. His deputy John Mangwiro also told Studio 7 that they were too busy to speak.
Chairman of the Health Services Board, Dr. Paulinus Sikosana, also said they had been in a meeting on the COVID-19 epidemic and were therefore unable to speak to us.
Health experts also say that if the government does not address the issue of nurses returning to work and also preventing pediatricians from continuing to set themselves on fire, especially now that the country is facing the COVID-19 epidemic that has killed 25 people so far.
Chinhoyi City Council says it is ready to comply with the High Court's ruling on Monday that the council should rebuild buildings that it demolished in the city.
Speaking at a meeting with traders who had their buildings demolished by the Chinhoyi council, the council's secretary, Abel Gotora, said they would abide by the court's order for the council to build commercial buildings which had been demolished by some traders.
But Mr Gotora said the council would not rebuild all the buildings it had demolished, but would only build the buildings that the high court had ordered for the six people who took the council to court.
Tafadzwa Marimo, Emmanuel Ngwaru, Richard Svosve, Pepukayi Marega and Devis Shopo were among those who took Chinhoyi to court.
One of the six, Emmanuel Gwaru, said he accepted the court ruling with great joy as the government had told the councils to clean up the area only, not demolish buildings.
Mr Gwaru said one of his biggest grievances was that he was paying money for the council to build better commercial facilities. Gadzema Councilor Patricia Chibaya said she was pleased with the court's decision as she was in a difficult situation because, on the other hand, as a councilor, she had to comply with a letter from provincial minister July Moyo to clean up the cities, but at the same time. they also sympathize with the people who live by the trade whose markets have been destroyed.
Mr Gotora announced that the council would build a new market for 50 traders at the Gadzema market.
A spokesperson for the Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights, Kumbirai Mafunda, said traffickers were coming to their offices seeking legal representation.
Many councils in the country are demolishing buildings that they say were built illegally.
But traders in various parts of the world are protesting in court what their councils are doing.
Following the Supreme Court ruling on Tuesday as to who should lead the MDC party since the death of Morgan Tsvangirai, many people want to know who the real owner of the Richard Morgan Tsvangirai House or Harvest House is.
The court ruled that Ms Thokozani Khupe should take over the reins of the MDC-T until an election is held within three months.
But the issue of who enters the party's headquarters is a bit difficult as there are two people guarding the building, namely Ian Makone and Reverend Tim Neil, a former head of the Church of the Province of Central Africa or CPCA.
The secretary general of the MDC Alliance, Charlton Hwende, believes that the center is in the hands of the two and that they are currently the only ones allowed to use it.
Douglas Mwonzora, who also claims to be the party's secretary general, has returned to the party in 2014. He also believes that the party is in the hands of Makone and Neil.
But they said they think they will be allowed to work in you. We have not been able to contact Mr. Makone and Mr. Niel to hear their side of the story.
The deputy chairperson of the MDC led by Nelson Chamisa, Job Sikhala, says the St Marys area in Chitungwiza has given birth to leopards which is prompting party supporters to flee their homes and seek refuge.
Sikhala, a former Zengeza West MP, said his party's supporters were being sought by a senior police officer named Jabangwe in the area for his arrest.
We tried to contact Mr. Jabangwe but he did not want to answer our questions.
Studio7 was also unable to hear from a police spokesman. Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi, why the supporters want to be arrested by the police.
But it is alleged that the issue of arrests of MDC supporters was aimed at protesting the party's nationwide protests.
Sikhala, who was arrested last month on charges of plotting to overthrow the government of Emmerson Mnangagwa, told Studio 7 that many people were fleeing their homes for fear of arrest.
More than 90 people were arrested in Harare last Friday in connection with a protest organized by the MDC on the same day.
The MDC wants to protest in major cities in the country but the police are using part of the Public Order and Security Act to ban the party from continuing its protests.
Police have so far banned the MDC from protesting in Harare, Bulawayo, Gweru and Masvingo.
Political analysts say this could also happen in Mutare where the MDC plans to hold a protest on Thursday.
The High Court has suspended Justice Minister Ziyambi Ziyambi and Finance Minister Mthuli Ncube from funding the MDC-T led by Thokozani Khupe under a parliamentary budget law.
High Court Judge Priscilla Munangati Manongwa ruled on Thursday that she had suspended Ziyambi and Ncube from presenting the MDC-T faction, which claims to be the legitimate party, to fund political parties under parliament under the Political Parties (Finance) Act.
The MDC is due to receive R7,500 million in RTGS.
Experts say Nelson Chamisa's MDC has gone to court after Ms Khupe's faction had written letters to banks seeking to remove Chamisa's members from the list of people who were required to sign statements to withdraw money from the party's Steward Bank.
Chamisa's MDC-T deputy spokesman, Luke Tamborinyoka, said he was happy with the ruling.
But Morgen Komichi, who has been claiming to be the party's chairman following a Supreme Court ruling that ruled that Chamisa had not complied with his party's constitution to become MDC leader, said he would take steps to get the money as he was the party's official leader.
But Mr Tamborinyoka said he was entitled to the money as the MDC MPs entered parliament using his name.
But Komichi said Mr Chamisa and others should abide by the law.
Meanwhile, a Harare lawyer, Kudzai Kadzere, said the court's decision could be appealed within 10 days.
Ziyambi told Studio7 by telephone that they could also file their papers in court within 10 days if they want to challenge the ruling as ordered by the court.
We have not been able to speak to the Speaker of Parliament, Jacob Mudenda, or the Minister of Finance to hear his side of the story as he has also been named in the court papers.
Some legal experts say the provisional order was issued by the court to the nominees that if they did not object to Chamisa's MDC case, the court could fulfill its decision to transfer the money to Chamisa's MDC.
This is not the first time the MDC has fought for these funds.
In 2006, after former MDC secretary general Welshman Ncube opposed Morgan Tsvangirai in October 2005 and formed his own MDC, he continued to receive all the MDC funding for the parties, leaving Mr. Tsvangirai, the majority party in parliament, without a single penny.
Another Zimbabwean, Dr Rita Nyampinga, of the Female Prisoners Support Trust, which fights for women's rights in prisons, said she was happy to receive the 2020 International Women of Courage Award.
The award recognizes the heroic deeds of women around the world, and is presented by the United States Department of International Relations.
Dr Nyampinga said she never thought she would receive such an honor, saying she was thrilled to be recognized along with 11 other women from around the world.
Dr Nyampinga says they will be traveling to various parts of the United States to learn about prison conditions so that they can strengthen their work at home.
Dr Nyampinga says their work requires courage and they are happy that others have seen the work they are doing back home.
Speaking at the event, Secretary of State for International Relations Michael Pompeo said the work done by the 12 women is admirable and requires courage.
The program was launched 14 years ago.
Other women who have received this award are from Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bolivia, Burkino Faso, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Syria, Yemen and Zimbabwe.
Mr Pompey said such programs were important as they gave women the opportunity to work for the rights of others around the world.
Speaking at the event, the first lady of the United States, Melania Trump, said she was pleased with the human rights work being done by women around the world.
He said that since they first met the women who have been selected for recognition four years ago, they have continued to meet women who are doing admirable work around the world even though some of them do these jobs and face harassment but continue to do so.
Dr Nyampinga says he started his career as a human rights activist 30 years ago.
In addition to her party, Ms Nyampinga is a board member of the Women's Coalition Of Zimbabwe, Crisis In Zimbabwe Coalition, Women Academy on Political Leadership Excellence and Women And Aids Support Network.
Other Zimbabwean women who have received the award include Ms. Jenni Willaims, Ms. Magodonga Mahlangu, Ms. Jestina Mukoko and Ms. Beatrice Mtetwa.
The health ministry said it had asked South Africa to test whether a Zimbabwean woman from China arrived in the country on Tuesday with a coronavirus infection.
A study conducted in Zimbabwe by China shows that it does not. South Africa's National Institute of Communicable Diseases has the highest level of expertise in northern South Africa to determine if a person has been infected with the coronavirus.
The woman is at Wilkins Hospital in Harare. Infectious disease specialist Dr Portia Manangazira says they expect to know the status of the situation within five days.
The ban on the operation of minibuses and buses under the ZUPCO bus company has caused problems for the lack of transportation, which has led to people gathering at bus stops as the country struggles to spread the Covid-19 epidemic in the country.
Many people are said to be suffering from a lack of transportation, especially in the evenings, which is causing them to squeeze into the few available buses.
The government has enacted a law banning passengers from transporting people during the Covid-19 epidemic as a way to prevent the spread of the virus, stating that only ZUPCO-owned buses are allowed to carry passengers.
But some buses and buses are said to be reluctant to go under the scheme for various reasons including delays in payment by ZUPCO.
On Monday, the private bus operators reportedly held a meeting with ZUPCO officials to try to resolve their grievances, including late payment of their buses.
On Tuesday, the buses were expected to meet with government officials to resolve the dispute.
Studio 7 has not been able to hear from ZUPCO as to what plans are in place to address the shortage of transport.
But the head of the Harare Residents Trust, Precious Shumba, said the government should address the transport crisis as soon as possible before things go awry.
Lions say the government should put police, army or council police at the bus stops in order to enforce a law to protect people from spreading the disease.
They also say that health workers should also be patrolling the bus terminals to check that they are HIV-negative or Covid-19.
Businesses in Bulawayo in conjunction with various city organizations have met with city officials to discuss problems they say are caused by water shortages, which are said to have taken a long time.
The head of the Association for Business in Zimbabwe (ABUZ), Victor Nyoni, said the closure had disrupted the operation of many businesses as their members needed water to carry out their daily activities.
Mr Nyoni said he had been assured by the council officials he met to expect water supply early next week, as the council hopes to complete its work by the end of the week.
The city of Bulawayo is said to have entered its second week without water following a move by the council to repair water pumps at the Criterion Water Works.
This is also said to be due to the declining water levels in the city's main source of water for Criterion and Magwegwe as well as power outages for pumping water.
Mr. Nyoni says it is well known that the city of Bulawayo is over 120 years old, and that machinery and water pipes are old.
He called on the government and the council to take steps to address the problem once and for all.
Studio7 failed to hear the council's side of the story.
The Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association, which represents striking doctors, said it was waiting to hear from President Emmerson Mnangagwa after a meeting with its envoys on Wednesday.
The treasurer of the meeting, Doctor Prince Butau, said he was looking forward to hearing from Mr Mnangagwa any time on Thursday or Friday.
Mr Mnangagwa, who was on leave, returned immediately to try to resolve the doctors' strike.
Things in all public hospitals are said to be in a state of disarray since doctors went on strike on December 1 last year.
But the head of the Community Working Group on Health, Mr Itai Rusike, said the government should address the problem urgently and provide doctors with money to prevent them from picking ants by mouth.
Some Zimbabweans in South Africa have protested at Groote Schuur Hospital in Cape Town, where Deputy President Constantino Chiwenga is being treated, demanding that Chiwenga return to a local hospital for treatment.
Mr Chiwenga was reportedly rushed out of the country over the weekend for medical treatment in South Africa, although Studio 7 could not find any evidence that he was in South Africa's largest hospital.
Media Minister Monica Mutsvangwa and Information Secretary Nick Mangwana declined to comment on the matter on Sunday when contacted by VOA's Studio 7 for Zimbabwe, urging them to arrest George Charamba.
But Studio 7 failed to contact Charamba to find out if it was true that Chiwenga was ill and was being treated at the hospital.
Another Zimbabwean, Carlos Chimbi, who lives in Cape Town, joined other Zimbabweans in the protest.
Chimbi said he was "deeply saddened" that the vice president had violated the rights of people with disabilities in the country as he knew he would seek medical treatment abroad if he became ill.
He said he was happy to be able to deliver his message to the hospital as the head of the hospital had asked to speak to him, although he did not say whether Mr Chiwenga was at the hospital or not.
Chimbi said the head of the hospital had told him that the law did not allow him to talk about patients who would be at the hospital if they were not at the hospital.
Chiwenga angered the people last year when doctors went on strike, saying they were not skilled workers but ordinary workers, and that the government had not taken steps to address the problems in hospitals that are causing people to lack proper treatment.
Groote Schurr Hospital is best known for being the world's first heart-to-heart transplant.
Police have banned the main opposition MDC party from holding a rally tomorrow when the party's leader, Nelson Chamisa, was expected to announce his party's direction and plans for this year.
Speaking after a meeting of the party's Standing Committee in Harare, MDC deputy spokesman Luke Tamborinyoka said police had banned the rally and said they were busy with the reopening of schools.
Tamborinyoka said the meeting would not be held tomorrow because the MDC wanted its supporters to avoid being beaten or attacked by the police.
He said it was clear that the police were trying to attack the party's supporters as they had done when the party planned to protest in all the cities and towns in the country.
He said the conference, which had the theme of Agenda 2020, was to be held at Ms Musodzi Hall in Mbare and would be held on Tuesday next week at a venue to be announced later.
Mr Tamborinyoka said the MDC was tired of being considered a terrorist organization and was considering whether to continue to follow the law or change its policy.
We were unable to hear from Zimbabwe Republic Police, ZRP spokesperson, Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi, as their mobile phone was not working.
Independent political analyst Masimba Kuchera told Studio7 that he felt the police were harassing the MDC.
In August last year, the ZRP banned the MDC from protesting in cities and towns across the country, saying it feared the protests would lead to riots as had happened in January.
Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed has been nominated for this year's Nobel Peace Prize. Norway offers this award.
Ahmed was praised for bringing peace between his country and Eritrea after a 20-year war over differences between the two countries.
The first black person to win the award was Albert Luthuli of South Africa in 1960.
Other recipients include the late Nelson Mandela of South Africa, Anwar Sedat of Egypt and Kofi Annan of Ghana.
Other winners include, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, were Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, and the late Wangari Maathai of Kenya, the first black woman in Africa to win the award.
In Zimbabwe in 2011 the late Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai was nominated for a prize although he was unsuccessful.
Dr Pedzisayi Ruhanya, a political scientist at the University of Johannesburg, says President Emmerson Mnangagwa has a lot to learn from Ahmed's leadership style.
Many elephants and other animals are dying of starvation and water in the Hwange National Park, prompting the government to intensify its efforts to reduce the number of elephants.
During a visit to Studio7 in the Hwange National Park area, we saw the bodies of many elephants who have died of malnutrition caused by drought in some areas this year.
Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority (ZimParks) spokesperson Tinashe Farawo told Studio7 that 85 elephants have died since September and more than 200 have died this year due to starvation.
The Pharaohs also said that in addition to the famine, one of the main causes of death is the shortage of food and water, which has led to a reduction in the number of elephants and other animals.
When eating, one elephant is said to need more than 200 pounds [500 kg] of food and to require more than two gallons [200 L] of water.
But now ZimParks estimates that there are more than 45,000 elephants in the area.
Some animal rights activists say the figures provided by ZimParks are false and say they are doing this as a way of getting support to be able to sell elephants.
Advocates4Earth member, Lenin Chisaira, admits that elephants and other animals are starving and malnourished, but he is one of the proponents of ZimParks' lack of transparency.
According to Chisaira, one of the main causes of hunger for animals in the Hwange National Park is the government's decision to allow people to do things such as mining, which they say should not be done in the area.
But Mr. Farawo said he was concerned about the views of animal rights activists who said they did not want to accept the fact that elephants and other animals are increasing due to the good work of his department, adding that the department is open and its doors open to all who want to know the situation in zoos.
Zimbabwe and other northern African countries, including Botswana, say they want the International Convention on the Trade in Endagered to allow them to sell their elephants as the number of animals has increased, which has led to a number of problems, including human and animal poaching.
Thirty-three people have been killed by the animals of the organization this year alone.
At a CITES summit in Geneva, Switzerland in August, the organization rejected a call for the lifting of the ban on the sale of elephants and their ivory.
The head of the Safari Operators Association of Zimbabwe, Emmanuel Fundira, said it was important for CITES and animal rights activists to understand the problems facing Zimbabwe and other countries due to the high number of elephants in these countries.
The Minister of Climate and Tourism, Nqobizitha Ndlovu, told Studio 7 that the government is trying its best to work with other countries to give CITES a new perspective.
But they also said they could take a move called reservation which allows them to export elephants to other CITES countries that have taken the same step.
Hwange National Park opened in 1928 and is the largest national park in the country.
The organization is over 14,000 square miles [14,000 sq km] and at its inception was estimated to have only about 2,000 elephants.
The General Secretary of the Footballers Union of Zimbabwe, FUZ, Paul Gundani, died in Kwekwe on Wednesday afternoon after a short illness.
But it is still unknown how things turned out.
According to FUZ, Gundani died at Topomasi Private Hospital in Kwekwe.
The club also says their absence has left a large gap that will be difficult to close as they have a passion for helping football players.
Gundani, who previously played for Zisco Steel, also played for the Young Warriors, and played for the Warriors at a time when the team was known as the "Dream Team" under the tutelage of the late Reinard Fabisch.
FUZ media officer Marlene Gadzirayi said she was shocked to hear that Gundani had passed away.
"I am very sad as I spoke to them yesterday and we were already planning how to proceed. But I heard today that they are missing but at this stage I do not know what Mr Gundani ate," Ms Gadzirayi told Studio7.
Ms Gadzirayi says the country has lost a great football hero. Ms Gadzirayi also said there were no plans for Mr Gundani's funeral as he was waiting to hear from his family when he would be laid to rest.
The Zimbabwe Football Association (ZIFA) has announced on its website that it is saddened by Gundani's death and will stand by the family in all his funeral arrangements.
ZIFA communications officer Xolisani Gwesele said Gundani's death was a national tragedy and it would be difficult to find a man with a passion for football.
"Peace be upon you Paul Gundani," Gwesela wrote on the ZIFA website.
Former President Robert Mugabe's body could not be flown to his home in Zvimba today as his wife, Grace Mugabe, has fallen ill.
Some relatives say the body is due to arrive in Zvimba on Monday.
As many as 1,000 people have been waiting for President Mugabe's body for a day in Zvimba this afternoon.
A spokesman for the Mugabe family, who is also the grandson of the deceased, Leo Mugabe, said Mugabe's body could not be found today for reasons he said he did not know as he had just been sent by King Zvimba.
Leo Mugabe said the body would arrive home early in the morning.
But King Katizagombo, also known as Gibson Jenami, said the body would not return to Zvimba as expected since Ms Grace Mugabe was ill.
King Katizagombo also said the body will be in the hands of the government until the day it is laid to rest.
But this contradicts Leo Mugabe, who said Mugabe's body would be kept by his family until a high-level grave was completed.
Uncertainty at President Mugabe's funeral procession has left many in a state of shock as to whether or not Mugabe's body will arrive as it is almost 30 days before his burial.
Leo Mugabe said Mugabe's body would remain in Zvimba for a day and then return to Harare where he would be laid to rest.
Leo Mugabe said people had gathered in one place at President Mugabe's home in Harare.
A member of the opposition MDC-T led by Nelson Chamisa who was also expected to die in Zvimba today, Lloyd Tarubwa of Banket, who was abducted and detained for nine months without trial, said they had come to see if President Mugabe was really dead.
The conduct of Mr. Mugabe's funeral has shocked many in the country, claiming that Mr. Mugabe's troubles during his tenure were the cause of his death.
Mr Mugabe passed away in Singapore on September 6 after a long illness.
The Amalgamated Rural Teachers Union of Zimbabwe, or ARTUZ, says one of its leaders, Godfrey Chanda, was abducted by detectives and detained for two hours in Gweru without the public's knowledge.
But Chanda, who is a member of the ARTUZ committee in the Midlands region, has been released after being forced not to hold meetings with coaches in Gweru.
ARTUZ president Obert Masaraure said Chanda's dismissal came as coaches under his two-day strike went on strike for a three-day strike.
Masaraure says some coaching associations are also striking as a way to support their union.
The demonstration ends on Wednesday.
But Masaraure said a meeting would be held after the strike to plan for action.
We have not been able to contact the Minister of Labor, Ms Sekai Nzenza, to find out the government's position on the matter but her mobile phone has not been answered.
FC Platinum's sudden exit from the Caf Champions League has raised many questions about Zimbabwean football.
Although they still have two games left in the competition, FC Platinum will no longer be able to hold Esperance who have eight points, nor will they be able to beat Horoya Athletic Club who have seven points. as they were beaten at home and outside by Horoya which is the first to be watched if these teams finish the games equally on points.
At the moment, FC Platinum have only one point from four games so they are just playing to complete their remaining games in order to gain the respect of another fan of the game Spencer Mushambadope.
Mushambadope says there will be no results for the remaining matches.
Last year, the same team was released in the first round by Angola's Primeiro de Agosto after being beaten at home by Lunda again.
In 2017, Caps United reached the mini league stage of the tournament but failed to reach the quarter-finals after being beaten 4-2 at home by Al Ahli Tripoli of Libya.
The same year, the Ngezi Platinum Stars who were representing Zimbabwe in the Caf Confederation were knocked out of the tournament in the first round when they were beaten by the Angolan Libolo.
In 2016 Harare City who were in the same competition were eliminated in the first round by Zanaco of Zambia after being beaten 2-1 at Rufaro Stadium and then finished 3-1 in Zambia.
This shows that local teams are failing to stand up to other African teams as was the case in previous years when Dynamos competed effectively in reaching the Caf Champions League final in 1998 and the semi-finals in 2008.
What hurts the most is that FC Platinum have only one point in four games, they have not scored a single point, moreover, they have conceded six points in four games.
The question is, if a team is beating all the teams at will in Zimbabwe and they are playing like this in Africa, what does it mean for national football?
Caps United supporter Tinashe Musebi says football has deteriorated to such an extent that there is a need for more reforms, before Zimbabwean teams fall short of surpassing Lesotho, Botswana and Swaziland.
Football commentator Farai Kambamura says Zimbabwean teams are failing to play in Africa because the players who helped them win the league title in Zimbabwe are going abroad, especially to South Africa when they are competing in Africa.
Last year, FC Platinum lost Gerald Takwara, Elvis Chipezeze and Talent Chawapiwa, this year lost to Rodwell Chinyafanere who won the soccer star of the year trophy who went to Baroka.
But John Chikochi, who led the Lengthens team in the Premier Soccer League, said Zimbabwe needed to increase its football competitions in the country so that clubs could pay players a fee that would prevent them from fleeing to South Africa and Zambia.
Currently, Zimbabwe has only two clubs, the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League and the Chibuku Super Cup. The Zifa Cup was last played in 2005.
A football fan, Musa Masepe, says Zimbabwe has no football talent as players are opting to sing or something else as their salaries in football are no longer viable.
If this continues, it will take time for local teams to compete with other African teams.
Elections to represent the Democratic Party in the US presidential election in November are raging following the election of former New York mayor Michael Bloomberg.
Bloomberg, who has become a very rich man, did not run in the by-elections to represent his party in the presidential election, which will be contested by Republican Party spokesman Donald Trump.
Mr Bloomberg announced in November last year that he was joining the party, spending more than $ 400 million on advertising. This money is theirs.
The rich man did not run in the by-elections in Iowa and New Hampshire, nor will he run in the by-elections in Navada and South Carolina, pending the March election, when 14 states will elect a candidate to represent the Democratic Party in the US presidential election.
As soon as Bloomerg put his foot down in the running for office, former members of the party, such as Bernie Sanders, who represents Vermont in the Senate, and Elizabeth Warren, who represents Massachusetts in the Senate, began tearing down Bloomberg's record.
Speaking ahead of a Nevada political rally, Mr. Sanders said that in order for his party to defeat Mr. Trump, it needed someone who could mobilize more people than ever before in American history.
Mr Sanders said Mr Bloomberg was a well-known figure in New York mayor's decision to suspend and search for black people, as well as to Latinos, who were unfairly doing so. He said such a move could not get more people to vote for Mr. Trump's removal in November.
But Bloomerg slammed Mr. Sanders' comments, saying Mr. Sanders, who is leading the polls, has been elected a Democratic Party candidate in the presidential election, which will be with Mr. Trump for the next four years.
A political analyst and Zanu PF member, Frank Guni, said it was clear that the main match was between Sanders and Bloomberg, although it was clear that Sanders now had too many supporters.
Guni says, in his view, Sanders and Bloomberg should run in the presidential election together in order to defeat Trump.
Some candidates in the Democratic Party say; Barack Obama's former successor, Joe Biden; Minnesota senator Amy Klobuchar, as well as former mayor of South Bend in Indiana, and a gay man, Pete Buttigieg.
The Democratic Party has 3,979 delegates, and for a person to be nominated as a candidate for the presidential election, he or she must have 1,990 delegates (1,990).
In addition to the delegates, there are also super delegates so that when the Democratic Convention is held in July in Wisconsin, there should be 4,750 delegates and supervisors, and the person elected at this meeting, should get 2,200 votes. three seventy-six votes (2,376 votes).
Many people go to the banks early in the morning in the hope of making money as a guarantee of the world's largest bank but have ridden a rotten donkey.
A survey conducted by Studio 7 at various banks in Harare, Bulawayo, Chinhoyi, Masvingo, Mutare, Gweru and other cities revealed that no banks have received the new money and many banks have not been able to provide the people with the old one.
Jossam Marwira, one of the bankers, said he had been waiting for the money for a day as he had heard in the news that a new currency would be added.
Mr Marwira said he was particularly concerned about buying money on the streets and said it would be better for people like him to be able to get money from banks free of charge.
A man who buys and sells money on the street who declined to be named also told Studio 7 that he was also looking forward to the new currency but saw nothing.
RBZ, the central bank, recently announced that it would launch new investments in the hope of alleviating the country's financial woes.
RBZ Governor John Mangudya has announced that he will issue a $ 2 gold bond as well as a $ 2.5 bond bond that was expected to come into effect today.
Bankers Association of Zimbabwe president Webster Rusere also said they had not yet checked whether any of the banks had received the money, saying RBZ was the only source of information.
The issue of money laundering is causing controversy in the country, with some saying it will help people who are worried about money while others say it is a scapegoat.
Zimbabweans driving in South Africa have been living in a state of shock following the burning of cars by suspected South Africans who do not want foreign nationals to find work.
South African government ministers for police, Bheki Cele; Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula; and the Minister of Labor, Thulas Nxesi, held a meeting with truck drivers, job seekers and the owners warned to take action against those who are burning the trucks.
Cele warned truckers were on fire that they would be arrested as they were disrupting economic affairs.
But just two hours after they finished talking a truck burned down on the N2 in Durban.
A police spokesman, Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad, acknowledged that another truck had been set on fire.
Over the weekend, 18 trucks, including those feared by other Zimbabweans, were also set ablaze in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng.
The chairman of the Zimbabwe Exiles Forum, Gabriel Shumba, said the trucks had been set ablaze on highways in the SA, prompting the temporary closure of the roads.
Representing South Africa's Zimbabwe Exemption Permits, Edward Muchatuta, said that after the incident, he and other foreign drivers also protested, demanding that the SA government intervene.
One of the drivers, George Nanyika, has called for a dialogue.
Davie Munodawafa, another driver, said he also feared for his life.
Munadawafa went on to say that many drivers do not know their future.
South Africa's police chief, Bheki Cele, yesterday warned that the police would take strict action against those who set fire to the vehicles. This, in turn, is what caused the other side of the coin to stop.
Lions told Studio7 that the incident was a repeat of what South Africans had previously said that foreign nationals should leave SA.
Journalists have also been criticized by Shumba for failing to inform the public about the incident.
Lions went on to say that their organization has written letters to foreign embassies in South Africa, including Zimbabwe, asking them to work together to end the crisis.
Dewa Mavhinga, Human Rights Watch's regional director for North Africa, condemned the incident and urged motorists not to travel at night.
The country's economic woes are prompting Zimbabweans to seek employment in South Africa, which has sparked tensions as South Africans complain of being deprived of jobs by foreigners.
The court has ordered the police not to ban former Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors' Association president Dr. Peter Magombeyi, to go to South Africa for medical treatment following alleged beatings by kidnappers on September 14.
The United States is giving Zimbabwe another $ 42 million. The money will be used to buy food for one million people from next month until May 2020.
Residents of rural Gwanda in Matabeleland South province tell Studio7 that no significant development projects are being undertaken by the government, and that little progress is being made by the private sector.
The President of the United States, Donald Trump, will address the United Nations General Assembly in New York.
The MDC leadership is holding a meeting with Harare city councils to find ways to address the city's water crisis.
In the program The Connection on LiveTalk at 8pm we look at what young people can do to boost the national economy so that young people do not leave their countries looking for greener pastures in other countries where they face violence that affects only foreigners in their home countries.
If you want to join the program, or send a message to Studio7, use the WhatsApp number 001 202 465 0318…
Want to listen to Studio7, catch us at 7pm on 909 am 4930; 6040, and 15460 Kilohertz on Shortwave daily.
You can also hear Studio7 at 6 am - Monday through Friday, on 909 am, 4930, 7270, and 9885 Short Wave.
Zimbabwe on Friday joined the rest of the world in marking International Women's Day, with many women saying they continue to be oppressed and deprived because leaders in the country do not care to promote them to equal opportunities.
Although Zimbabwe has a constitution that binds equality of opportunity between women and men, many of the women we spoke to said there was no need or concern from government officials, political parties, churches or companies to ensure that this happened.
A former member of parliament and lawyer, Ms Jessy Majome, told Studio 7 that women are suffering the most in the country due to the negligence of men in leadership positions.
They say there is a great opportunity for the country to close the gap between women and men if the constitution is adhered to.
The head of the Zimbabwe Women Lawyers Association, Abigail Matsvai, told Studio 7 that today is a very important day and they are using it to encourage leaders in government to adhere to laws that equalize opportunities between men and women.
A member of the Gender Commission, Ms. Tsungirai Hungwe-Chimbunde, told Studio 7 that strong education is needed to make the public aware of the importance of equal opportunities between women and men.
He said his commission was trying its best to reach out to various political parties to give their members equal opportunities in the elections so that more women could run for office.
This year's celebrations are being held under the theme, Think Equal, Build Smart, Innovate for Change.
Ms Majome said in line with the theme, the electoral commission should use these powers to provide equal seats for women and men in the 2023 elections.
Ms. Matsvai has supported these reform groups in the leadership positions.
Ms Majome also said it was important for women to unite and fight their battles together and not be exploited by men.
He said it was clear that many men in office did not want to leave the party, which was why they were fighting women and giving them less opportunities to run for office.
International Women's Day is celebrated annually on March 8 as a way to celebrate women's progress in economic, political and other fields as well as to promote equality of opportunity between women and men around the world.
Government-sponsored celebrations were held in Gokwe in the Midlands region and many organizations also held ceremonies in various locations. MDC leader Nelson Chamisa was marking the day in Chitungwiza.
Other media outlets today, including the Zimbabwe Human Rights Commission, said it was difficult for women to move forward with the current economic situation as no one was giving them a chance.
The Zimbabwe Peace Project has also issued a statement marking the day to protest against human rights abuses, including violations of human rights abuses in January following a nationwide protest.
The Labor Court has ruled that children who are absent from work must return to work within 48 hours as their activities are illegal.
Labor Court judge Rodgers Manyangadze and Lawrence Murasi have given the doctors two days to return to work.
The court also ruled that a dispute between the children's doctor and the government should be referred to a mediator in order to resolve the matter within 14 days.
Former vice-president of the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors' Association, Doctor Masimba Ndoro, said despite the ruling, doctors were not qualified to go to work.
Asked by Studio7 if they were afraid of losing their jobs if they did not comply with the court's order, Dr. Ndoro said employers should take action to get workers back to work.
The lawyer for the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors' Association, Doug Coltart, said he did not agree with the outcome but would look into the reasons.
Coltart also said he had a chance to appeal to the Supreme Court against the ruling if doctors wanted to take action.
Studio7 was unable to hear the side of the health minister, Dr. Obadiah Moyo, along with the Health Services Board,
The doctors went on strike on September 3, saying they had no work to do.
Remaining senior doctors at work also staged a sit-in on Thursday last week complaining about salaries and conditions in hospitals.
The US government says that Cyclone Idai devastated Manicaland province and that the tragedy will continue to affect its people.
Speaking to Studio 7 at the US embassy, ​​Jason Taylor, USAID's director of disaster relief, said that while they were working with other agencies to rehabilitate roads and rebuild damaged buildings, they were now focusing more on food security to save lives.
Taylor said the crisis in Manicaland was so serious that the Zimbabwean government could not do it on its own.
Taylor, who visited Manicaland province with a World Food Program helicopter, where he is investing, said he was shocked to see the mental anguish in the region.
He said the children he saw were unhappy. He said it was important that after the people of Manicaland benefited from such things as food and housing, they should also be helped to regain their composure.
Taylor also said that in Chimanimani and Chipinge they did not see or meet with residents who said they were not getting help because of the political party they support.
USAID has also said it has the expertise to train Zimbabweans to look into the sky to determine when, and where the storms are likely to occur, as well as what steps they can take to prevent the destruction of lives and property if requested by the government.
Since the outbreak of Cyclone Idai, the United States has provided Zimbabwe with $ 2.6 million.
Meanwhile, the government, the United Nations and non-governmental organizations today launched a $ 60 million emergency relief fund for Cyclone Idai.
It is estimated that about 300,000 people need help in Manicaland province, and of these, 129,000 are young children.
In the nine districts disrupted by Cyclone Idai, 113 schools were destroyed, leaving 90,000 students homeless.
The government says more than 300 people are unaccounted for, and another 399 people died in the crash.
This number is expected to rise.
Some patients say they are being treated abroad following a strike by children's nurses who say they fear they may die in hospitals without treatment.
A study conducted by Studio 7 has revealed that some patients are now traveling to other countries such as South Africa, Botswana and Zambia for treatment there following the strike by the children's nurse.
One of the patients we spoke to at Parirenyatwa, Ms Molline Chindove, said she had been coming to the hospital for days for treatment but nothing was moving.
Ms Chindove said she was going to South Africa for treatment for fear of dying of thirst with her legs in the water.
One of her relatives, Fiona Muchabaiwa, said she had no choice but to transport her patient to Zambia tomorrow for treatment, saying it was too expensive.
A study conducted by Studio 7 has revealed that many of the previously closed public hospitals are causing more and more people seeking treatment to leave public hospitals for treatment in private hospitals.
Wilbert Kasanze said he had taken his wife from Chegutu General Hospital to be treated at a private hospital in Chitungwiza.
Kasanze says the daily bus ride from Chegutu where he lives to Chitungwiza is causing his pocket money to run out.
The Health Services Board has announced that the retired child nurses will return to work immediately.
The board also called on all strikers to resign and urged them to re-apply if they still wanted a job.
This follows a statement issued by Deputy President Constantino Chiwenga calling for all striking nurses to resign.
But Zimbabwe Doctors for Human Rights says the dismissal of children by the government as a nurse without a dismissal certificate is illegal.
Football star Lionel Messi, who plays for Argentina and Spanish club Barcelona, ​​says he is breaking up his marriage with his country after failing to win a single trophy.
Messi made the remarks after the Copa America tournament hosted in the United States when Argentina lost in the final to Chile for the second time as Chile lifted the trophy.
Chile defeated Argentina on Sunday when Francisco Silva drunkenly sent Argentine goalkeeper Sergio Romero to the wrong side.
The two teams had drawn 0-0 in front of 82,000 supporters in East Rutherford in New Jersey.
Teams playing in the Copa America come from North and South America.
Three years ago, Argentina lost to Chile in the finals after the teams drew 0-0 again. Messi scored the first penalty and failed. Argentina lost 4-2 on penalties.
Messi then told Argentina's TyC Sports broadcaster that he had stopped playing for Argentina because he had failed to win the trophy despite his ambition.
Messi is 29 years old.
And he managed to win four Champions League trophies with Barcelona. But he has not won a Copa America or World Cup with Argentina.
Some patients in Bulawayo were failing treatment at two of the city's largest public hospitals when a doctor's strike entered its fourth day on Tuesday.
When Studio7 arrived at Mpilo Hospital during the day, some patients were being sent home as they were being treated for serious illnesses such as pregnant women with birth defects.
A resident who identified herself only as Ms Dlamini told Studio7 that she had come to the hospital with her swollen legs and was told to return home as they could not be seen by doctors.
We have tried to hear the situation from the hospital's director, Leonard Mabande, but he said we have spoken to the former chief medical officer, Dr Xolani Ndlovu, who said he could not speak to us as he had a lot of work to do.
At United Bulawayo Hospitals the hospital's outpatient unit or Outpatients Department has been closed and a notice issued by the hospital's chief medical officer, Dr Narcisaus Dzvanga, also indicates that the hospital is only accepting patients who are critically ill.
Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association spokesman Dr Mthabisi Bhebhe said doctors were continuing to strike across the country despite government calls for them to return to work, saying they had not heard from the government.
Dr Ndlovu said the poor state of affairs in hospitals, including the lack of medicines and other facilities, was the main reason for the strike.
Studio 7 was unable to hear the government's side of the story as we were unable to contact the health minister, Dr Obadiah Moyo.
But Dr Moyo's deputy, Dr John Mangwiro, told Studio 7 on the phone that they could not comment on the matter as they were out of the country and the department's secretary, Dr Gerald Gwinji, did not return calls.
Bulawayo Metropolitan Province MP for proportional representation, Dorcas Sibanda, told Studio 7 that the doctors' strike had been going on for some time, adding that it was unfortunate that the lives of many people were being jeopardized by the government.
Government doctors went on strike on Saturday and in large public hospitals are working doctors who have been working for many years as consultants, or consultant physicians.
Former Highlanders player and coach Barry Daka, 71, has died after a short illness.
Their daughter, Lorraine has told Studio 7 that her father passed away today at their home in Barbourfields.
He said they became ill on Sunday when they were leaving a concert at Barbourfields Stadium and he is thought to have suffered a stroke.
The Highlangers team posted a message on Twitter saying they were "deeply saddened" by the death and said they were mourning the loss of their family and others in sports news.
The club says Mr Daka started coaching the team in 1986 and managed to lift several trophies including the Independence Cup, Chibuku Trophy, Rothmans Shield and NetBrew Cup.
Arrangements for Mr Daka's funeral have not yet been announced.
Prominent musician Thomas Mapfumo says he will join other Zimbabwean children who will protest next month in New York at the start of the United Nations General Assembly, which is expected to be attended by President Robert Mugabe.
Mr Mapfumo said it was important for Zimbabweans to show their displeasure with the way things were going in the country as it was everyone's right to do so if things did not go well.
Mr Mapfumo said he would not be playing the guitar during the protest as he wanted to join Zimbabweans in showing the world government, especially President Mugabe, that things needed to change in the country.
"I am a musician but at the New York I will not be singing I will be joining others to protest against the corruption and oppression of Zimbabweans by the Mugabe government which is no longer popular," Mapfumo told Studio 7.
Organizations such as #ThisFlag led by Pastor Evan Mawarire, Tajamuka, Occupy Africa Unity Square and other NGOs and political parties affiliated with Zimbabweans from different cities are expected to join the protest.
Others expected to be at the rally include Patson Dzamara, the younger brother of human rights activist Itai Dzamara, who went missing last year.
The Amalgamated Rural Teachers Union of Zimbabwe (ARTUZ) says there are no talks between the government and teachers on resolving teachers' grievances.
ARTUZ president Obert Masaraure told Studio7 that his organization was unhappy to see students lacking funding for education, while teachers lacked funds to go to work.
Masaraure said many members of his party were writing letters of resignation saying they were looking for other jobs as their salaries were not enough to support their families.
We have not been able to contact the Minister of Education, Professor Paul Mavhima, to hear his side of the story.
As the world marks October as Breast Cancer Awareness Month, the Cancer Association of Zimbabwe says it is deeply concerned about the misunderstanding of some people in the country.
The organization reports that many people who claim to have been diagnosed with cancer, first go to a psychiatrist or a psychiatrist, and then to a specialist for serious illness, making it difficult to treat.
Cancer Association of Zimbabwe consultant Priscilla Mangwiro said it was important for people to go to a qualified doctor if they had the problem.
Ms Mangwiro says it is important for people to be screened for cancer, especially breast cancer.
Ms. Mangwiro says breast cancer is the second leading cause of death for women in Zimbabwe.
Ms. Mangwiro says that since October 1, when it launched its campaign to mark October as Cancer Awareness Month, its organization has tested more than 50 women, and the number will continue to rise until the end of this month.
After hearing about the Cancer Association of Zimbabwe program, a woman, Gertrude Magwaniza, said she took her daughter for a lump in her breast.
Ms Mangwiro says there are many factors that put women at risk of developing breast cancer.
Ms Mangwiro says women need to be monitored for changes in their breasts, and if they do, they should be screened immediately.
Ms Mangwiro says many people think that being diagnosed with cancer means they are dying but there is a lot that can be done to help women live longer.
Ms. Mangwiro says one of the main causes of cancer is eating a diet high in fat and sugar.
Ms. Mangwiro is urging women to take advantage of the October opportunity to get tested for cancer, as well as to be educated about the disease.
More than 5,000 people are infected every year and more and more will see a pediatrician for a serious illness.
The state-owned petrol company Petrotrade says if the government continues to set prices for the purchase and sale of motor fuel, the problem of fuel shortages will not go away.
Responding to a parliamentary proposal on fuel prices, former Petrotrade chief executive Godfrey Ncube said this was only possible if businesses were given the opportunity to buy fuel and sell at their own expense.
Mr Ncube acknowledged that doing so would raise prices but said it was the only way out of the country's long-running oil crisis.
Mr Ncube said waiting for the government's oil supply was slowing down oil prices in the country as they were getting more fuel in the long run.
Mr Ncube pointed out the shortage of fuel purchased by government assistance with the example he gave, saying that in the first six months last year, they sold 50 million liters, but in the same period this year they sold only 36 million liters.
Asked when her department hopes to address the fuel shortage crisis, fire department secretary Gloria Magombo said the problem would not go away if foreign investment was low.
He also said that addressing the issue needs the whole country and not just his department.
Asked whether the plan to use the Smart Card to buy fuel was mentioned by the governor of the central bank, John Mangudya, when he said the card would show the amount of fuel consumed by each car in the garage used to buy the fuel, Ms Magombo said the plan was reversed by the COVID-19 scandal. there was a need to buy in China.
Ms Magombo said she could not say when the plan would be successful, although Mr Mangudya told the committee last month that he hoped by the end of June they would try to use the card to see if it worked as intended.
This has angered a parliamentary committee that has said the fire department is failing to do its job as Ms Magombo also said she had heard from members of the committee today that many petrol stations in the country were selling for US dollars or foreign currency coupons.
The committee said it was "deeply concerned" that many developments in the country are being affected by the shortage of fuel.
Zimbabweans on Saturday mark the 40th anniversary of the country's independence from white supremacy, with blacks and other blacks being enslaved.
The advent of black supremacy raised the hopes of many that they would eventually gain a white supremacy, many of whom had been thrown into the abyss by whites as they took all their good land.
But 40 years after the country gained independence, some of them have said things have gotten worse for them compared to the white supremacy, as they no longer have jobs to support their families.
They say that the economic situation is so bad that it is difficult to know what the future holds.
Health issues are said to be at an all-time low as many hospitals in the country are no longer functioning as expected.
A few who are still working say that they often spend it on the streets protesting in order to earn a living.
The inauguration of former president Emmerson Mnangagwa in 2017, following the military ousting of former president Robert Mugabe, has given the public hope for a brighter future.
But most of them have been celebrating the witch and witch doctor, as they say things are getting worse.
But isn't there any good thing that Zanu PF has done for all these 40 years?
Zanu PF North American regional chairman Regis Charumbira says his party has done much to give land to blacks, regardless of party affiliation.
Mr Charumbira said his party had now completed an investigation into who had acquired more farms than others, and that those who had not yet acquired land, including Zimbabweans living abroad, should be acquired.
But Timothy Muringai, deputy secretary general of the MDC-T in North America, said Zanu PF had failed for many years to fulfill all the demands of the liberation struggle.
They say things have deteriorated for years in economic, health and business closures, leaving many workers on the streets unemployed.
Attorney Ntabazinduna Nhlanhlayamangwe Ndiweni or Lord Felix Ndiweni has appealed to the High Court today to challenge his sentence and sentence him to 18 months imprisonment.
Ishe Ndiweni and 23 others were arrested for breaking the fence of Fetti Mbele who wanted to evict him from Ntabazinduna district.
This follows the alleged rape of Mbele's wife, Nonkangelo Mpengesi.
Lord Ndiweni's lawyer, Dumisani Dube, told Studio 7 that the judge did not value the authority of chiefs in his constituency.
Popular musician Thomas Mukanya Mapfumo says he is looking forward to releasing his new album this month after the company's computer computer crashed.
The company is based in Eugene, Oregon in the United States and is called Tracktown Studios. Doctor Mapfumo told Studio 7 that out of the 15 songs he had recorded, only three remained.
The High Court has ruled that Heal Zimbabwe's president, Rashid Mahiya, has set aside bail to be tried from his home.
Mahiya, who has been in Chikurubi prison, is expected to be released on Friday after police said they could not complete their paperwork on time.
Mahiya's lawyer, who works with Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights, Tonderayi Bhatasara, told Studio 7 that in addition to the $ 1,000 bail bond, the court confiscated Mahiya's travel document and the need for his house and to report to the police twice a week.
"We have accepted the court's ruling because the important thing is for the person to be released and released from detention," Bhatasara told VOA's Studio 7 for Zimbabwe, adding: "
Mahiya is one of a number of people arrested in recent weeks on charges of plotting to overthrow the government after protests erupted over petrol prices.
Speaking to reporters in Harare, the secretary general of the Zimbabwe Medical Association, Sacrifice Chirisa, said he had received a letter from senior doctors or consultant doctors urging them to resign if the government did not address the grievances of young striking doctors.
Chirisa, who also happens to be the chief medical officer, said the workload has increased for senior doctors as junior doctors have been on strike for a month.
Chirisa said that in order to do their job properly, they need young doctors to work alongside them.
Mr Chirisa said the problem of patients in government hospitals was exacerbated by the absence of young doctors and 533 doctors who had been suspended following a move by the Health Services Board.
The general secretary of the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association, Mthabisi Anele Bhebhe, also said he was unhappy with the comments made yesterday by former president Constantino Chiwenga that young doctors were still in school.
Chiwenga, who was appointed by the cabinet to lead the dialogue between the government and the striking doctors, fired the nurses after the strike.
Their actions have been criticized by many who say Mr Chiwenga was using the military on issues that require dialogue.
Young doctors say they want the government to provide them with medical equipment, medicine and protective clothing while on duty as well as an increase in salaries which they say is similar to dog taxes.
But the government also says its coffers are so depleted that it cannot afford to increase them.
We were unable to hear the side of the health minister, Mr Obadiah Moyo, as he immediately attended a meeting with the pediatrician at the time we first went on air.
The Labor Court has rejected the government's request as the government has not submitted any documents in its case against doctors who are not going to work.
Doug Coltart, a lawyer representing the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctor's Association in Labor Court, said the court said there was not enough documentation from the Health Services Board, HSB, and therefore the matter could not be heard legally.
The court ordered the HSB's lawyer to file the missing documents tomorrow, Wednesday.
But doctors have also said that going to court is not the key to getting them to go to work, so it does not solve the problem.
Former vice-president of the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association, Doctor Masimba Ndoro, said his job required him to be on a daily basis and he needed to be paid for this.
The junior doctors went on strike on September 3, saying they did not have enough resources to go to work.
Senior doctors from the Zimbabwe Senior Hospital Doctors' Association also went on strike last Thursday, complaining about poor pay and inadequate medical care.
The senior doctors also wrote a letter complaining about the threats they were making and said it was useless for doctors to go to hospitals without adequate facilities to save patients' lives.
The doctors also criticized the government, saying the money had been increased by 60 percent, saying they did not agree with it.
Meanwhile, two other senior doctors have been suspended without pay by the University of Zimbabwe on charges of joining the strike and influencing others to resign.
Suspended is Dr. Bothwell Mbuvayesango, who specializes in pediatric surgery, with Drs. David Chimuka, an expert in the treatment of heart disease.
Dr. Mbuvayesangano made a name for himself in the country after his successful surgery on twins who were born with their heads together in 2014, while Dr. Wake up to a great deal of heart surgery.
The Zimbabwe Association of Doctors for Human Rights has strongly condemned the suspension of Dr. Mbuvayesangano with Dr. Get up.
We have not been able to hear from the University of Zimbabwe or to hear from the government on the state of health issues.
But a statement from Health Minister Obadiah Moyo acknowledged that doctors had not heeded the government's call to return to work.
Moyo said the government was awaiting the outcome of the court proceedings, after which he informed the state of the situation.
Doctors went on strike on September 3, saying they did not have enough money to go to work.
The government has signed an agreement with a foreign company to assist in the export of coal to countries such as India and Japan.
Speaking at the signing of the agreement with Victoria Consulting, the Minister of Minerals, Winston Chitando, said the government's intention was for the country to have access to coal trading in India and to raise funds for mining.
Chitando said Zimbabwe has an estimated 25 billion tonnes of coal but between 2 and 3 million tonnes are mined annually.
Chitando also said India is the largest importer of coal per year compared to other countries.
Speaking at the same meeting, the president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, said Zimbabwe should take advantage of the good relations that exist between it and India.
Studio7 has not been able to determine which Victoria Consulting company has worked with, and who its executives are.
But former deputy minister of mineral wealth in the coalition government, Gift Chimanikire, said he did not see the need for Zimbabwe to find markets for coal exports, which currently do not have enough coal mined in the country.
An economist, Nyasha Muchichwa, also said he did not see the need for Zimbabwe to find a foreign company that was interested in Zimbabwe's coal markets.
Mr Muchichwa also said it was better to use existing relations with other countries.
The Ministry of Minerals website says Zimbabwe has the best coal, and has 29 coal-mining areas.
Only two companies in the country, Hwange Colliery and Mountain Resources, are the largest coal miners.
Six members of the MDC-T party led by Nelson Chamisa, who were arrested in Harare on Friday, have been released on $ 1,000 bail each from their homes.
Given bail by Magistrate Chancellor Bianca Makwande, two of Chamisa's deputies; Tendai Biti and Ms. Lynett Karenyi Kore; foreign affairs secretary, Ms. Gladys Hlatywayo; Deputy Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Mr Lovemore Chinoputsa; a member of the National Standing Committee, and is the party's deputy secretary general, David Chimhini and Ms Vongai Tome.
The men have been ordered to pay $ 1,000 per person following their arrest yesterday following a dispute over the MDC's Morgan Tsvangirai House.
Ms Makwande said the detainees would return to court on July 24 and remain at the address they had registered with the police until their case was heard.
Speaking to Studio 7 after the verdict, one of the six lawyers, Alec Muchadehama, said the court also ordered the people they were representing not to obstruct the investigation into the case.
Mr Muchadehama also said that although the six were yesterday charged with rioting under the Criminal Law (Codification and Reform) Act, the detainees, who had appeared in court this morning, were returned to the police station where they were charged with violating the COVID-19 Prevention Act.
The six lawyers have also complained to the court about the alleged treatment of the detainees.
Mr Muchadehama said the detainees were not well protected and could not catch or transmit COVID-19 while in custody.
The party's president, Nelson Chamisa, has said he will continue to fight for change in the country despite the arrests of its members
Ms Makwande has denied that the party's deputy youth spokesperson, Womberaishe Nhende, who is being treated at a hospital, should remain in custody.
Mr Nhende was reportedly injured yesterday when he was arrested and taken to hospital.
In a separate lawsuit, Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights alleges that a police officer arrested after comparing President Emmerson Mnangagwa to a used condom was suspended and released on $ 300 bail.
The officer, Shungudzemoyo Kache, will also be tried at his home.
The head of Prophetic Healing and Deliverance (PHD) Ministries, Walter Magaya, has been adamant about his detention in Zimbabwe, saying he is working with other countries to launch an Aguma drug that he says cures HIV / AIDS, cancer and more.
Speaking to Studio7 at the end of a prayer service in Francistown, Botswana on Wednesday night, Mr. Magaya said he would not back down from his plan to arrest him by police in November 2018 after announcing that he had found a cure for HIV / AIDS.
After pleading guilty to trafficking in HIV / AIDS, Mr. Magaya was fined $ 700 in February last year.
But the incident did not deter Mr Magaya, who told Studio7 that they were working with other countries they did not want to name and said they saw Aguma's cure as a solution to the HIV / AIDS problem.
Mr Magaya said HIV / AIDS was a problem in Africa and therefore required all countries to work together to find a solution to the problem.
Mr Magaya said he saw fit to work with other countries because Zimbabwe was not confident that the drug would cure the country's deadly diseases.
However, in the case against Magaya in Zimbabwe, Aretha Medical Company's company was found to be unregistered with the Medicines Control Authority of Zimbabwe, and was reportedly not authorized by the Health Professions Authority to conduct an investigation into whether Aguma's drug was effective.
A doctor at a private hospital in Francistown, Sengaphi Khuzwayo, criticized Magaya for saying he was looking for money.
Mr. Magaya had previously caused controversy in the country after he was arrested for raping another woman, but the case was later dropped by a court after the plaintiffs dismissed the case legally.
The lack of pediatricians in government hospitals has put the lives of pregnant women at risk if they have a problem like the one at Chinhoyi General Hospital.
Ms. Lisa Sibanda is a woman who has suffered from postpartum depression.
Ms Sibanda said her baby, who was still premature, died in the womb when she was delivered on Tuesday, but no doctor was able to help her, saying she had to be helped by a nurse who caused the baby to die.
Ms. Sibanda says the biggest problem has been having their cervix washed so late that it can be detrimental to their health.
Ms. Sibanda says they are also facing water shortages and the toilets at the hospital will not be accessible and they are already collecting rainwater.
Erasmus Zindoga, who brought his wife from Kariba, said he had not received any medical help from a doctor and that a doctor he had seen at the hospital had refused to treat his wife.
Zindoga said he had already rented a car from Kariba to Chinhoyi for the 250km drive as things were not going well at the Kariba hospital.
We have not heard how many women are facing such problems at the Chinhoyi hospital which receives patients from areas including Kariba, Hurungwe, Karoi, Makonde and Zvimba.
Former Mashonaland West health director Tapiwa Dhliwayo says doctors should be on duty throughout the province.
However, she acknowledged that nurses are not the only ones who should treat women who have had a miscarriage, as is the case at Chinhoyi Hospital.
Chinhoyi City Council spokesman Tichaona Mlauzi issued a statement last week stating that Chinhoyi, with a population of 120,000, is facing water shortages due to the three dead pumps being repaired.
The Cancer Association of Zimbabwe urges the public to be screened for breast cancer early and before the disease is serious.
More than 5,000 people are diagnosed with various forms of cancer each year in Zimbabwe, but many of them see a pediatrician for this serious disease.
The organisation's president, Junior Mavhu, says they currently have plans to screen women and men for breast cancer so that they can get help on time.
Cancer is said to be killing more people in the country, especially women, even though it is more common in men.
Another Cancer Center is urging women and men to take advantage of the opportunity in October to be screened for cancer, as well as to be educated about the disease openly as they celebrate World Breast Cancer Month.
The world is looking forward to this month as a time to remind people to be aware of breast cancer and how they can benefit from it.
Ms Mavhu's recommendation is that everyone should be monitored regularly so that the disease can be treated and treated before it spreads. body.
Zimbabwe marked two years on Saturday since the shooting deaths of six people in Harare after scores of people took to the streets to express their displeasure with the conduct of the 2018 elections.
The killings took place around the world as journalists from various countries, who were in Zimbabwe watching the first round of elections for Zanu PF leader Emmerson Mnangagwa, were vying for the presidency following the violent ousting of the party's former president, the late Robert Mugabe.
Mnangagwa was running against Nelson Chamisa of the MDC Alliance, including leaders of minority opposition parties.
Following the shooting, the government was forced to form a commission to investigate the allegations. The commission had former South African president Kgalema Motlanthe as its chairman.
The commission released a statement indicating that the military and police had killed the six, and said the killers should be brought to justice. It also demanded that the government pay the relatives of the victims.
Mr Motlanthe's commission also said the government should send the children of the deceased to school, and that the police and the army should not place the law in their hands when people protest.
Human rights experts say the government has not yet complied with the Motlanthe Commission.
But Information Minister Monica Mutsvangwa said the government was aware of the Motlanthe Commission and had plans to ensure that the commission's commitments were met.
One of the commissioners who drafted the report, Lovemore Madhuku, who is also the chairperson of the National Constitutional Assembly, said his commission had completed its work and it was up to the Mnangagwa government to ensure it complied with the draft.
Madhuku also said his commission had issued an order for the government to compensate the relatives of the victims because the men had been shot by soldiers and police.
Human rights expert and Human Rights Watch's regional director for North Africa, Dewa Mavhinga, says the government is not showing any interest in implementing the Motlanthe Commission Report.
Mavhinga said it had been two years since the report was released, but no soldier had been arrested as recommended by Motlanthe's commission.
Many areas have been vacated after the president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, his ministers, members of parliament and the business community, joined forces with the public to clean up their workplaces and live under the National Clean-Up Campaign launched three months ago.
Mnangagwa arrived at Parirenyatwa Hospital early in the morning with his ministers who helped clean up the hospital's unsanitary conditions.
Speaking after the clean-up at the hospital, Mr Mnangagwa said the program was well received and a good one as it would improve people's health.
He said he launched the day as a way to remind people that this is what they should do every day.
Mr Mnangagwa also said people should get rid of the garbage dump and learn from countries such as Rwanda where people are no longer allowed to spray houses and grass or walk barefoot.
Sports Minister, Kirsty Coventry, and her staff, who started sweeping in Simon Muzenda Street and ended up in Africa Unity Square where they swept with the staff of Meikles Hotel and TM Supermarket.
They said the public was shocked to see them on the street sweeping and people should always clean up their neighborhoods.
Employees of Zimbabwe Newspapers have also taken to the streets around the company's headquarters and the company has also bought bins and placed them on the streets to dump rubbish.
Zimpapers spokeswoman Beatrice Tonhodzayi told Studio 7 that pollution is so prevalent in the area where they work that they have seen fit to work with the government to clean up the city and the country.
He said the company's employees at its offices in all regions of the country had also joined the National Clean-Up Campaign today.
The mayor of Harare, Hebert Gomba, city councilors, and council staff have also swept and collected rubbish in various villages in Harare.
Speaking to Studio 7 after cleaning up trash with OK Machipisa workers at the Machipisa business premises in Highfields, Gomba said he was happy with the turnout today saying the city was clean.
He said although the city's clean-up operation required a campaign, the council was making every effort to keep the city clean.
Mr Mnangagwa inaugurated the day, which is celebrated on the first Friday of each month as a way for people to keep their neighborhoods clean and healthy.
The Ministry of Finance has said it will increase funding as well as bring more high-value money into the country as a way to address the country's financial crisis.
Speaking at a press conference in Harare today, the department's secretary, George Guvamatanga, said it was impossible for them to start by bringing in a significant amount of money which would have cost them two dollars and a dollar.
Guvamatanga also said his department was aware that the country's budget was low and that the government would address the problem.
Asked what steps they would take to address the problem of money laundering, Deputy Finance Minister Clemence Chiduwa said consumers would be asked how they got the money.
An economist with the Labor and Economic Development Research Institute of Zimbabwe, Nyasha Muchichwa, said the government could overcome the monetary policy issue only if it invested enough in the country, including foreign exchange.
Mr Muchichwa also said the issue of arresting money changers would not solve the problem as they would do so for a few days and then resume their activities.
The finance ministry has also acknowledged that funding for the health sector is insufficient compared to the current health crisis but has said it will continue to improve.
Finance Minister Mthuli Ncube also told reporters at the press conference that he was pleased with the steps he had taken to improve the country's economy and progress.
But former finance minister Tendai Biti, one of the three MDC-T leaders, says the country's financial crisis is worsening as the country's central bank, the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe, is doing more than it should be doing, which is costing the country a lot of money. .
Mr Biti, who also chairs the parliamentary finance committee, said the finance ministry, as well as the central bank, should act in accordance with the rules, and in such a way that the country's financial system does not disappear, as did loans from some senior government officials.
But the finance ministry says the public should be aware that there have been too many years of unspent national money in building the country, so resolving the crisis will take time.
Singer Rise Kagona talks about her history in guitar and working with the late Biggie Tembo.
Four children died overnight in China, which is said to be infrequent when nurses are on duty.
An employee who is aware of the situation at the hospital says it is true that the babies died last night shortly after delivery.
Studio7 was unable to hear the side of the officials at this hospital.
Ms Chenai Chihwiti says her father, Mr Langton Chihwiti, died after being denied medical treatment on Wednesday when she was taken to Chinhoyi Hospital from Harare.
Matilda Chimbi of Banquet who was retrieving the body of her brother who died yesterday after being helpless, said her brother had called her to the hospital where they found her dead.
Ms Chimbe says many of the dying people would have survived had they not been treated in time.
More than 16,000 child nurses working in public hospitals have joined a nationwide strike for the fifth day in a row demanding higher salaries.
The government has fired all child nurses who have resigned, saying they still need to apply for a job.
Although the number of people infected with COVID-19 is still rising, many people are not taking precautionary measures as recommended by the World Health Organization, such as wearing masks on their faces.
Although it is clear that the public is transmitting the disease in the country, in bus markets and at banks crowded, or crowded, this makes the transmission of Covid-19 easier.
Studio7 has seen many people who were not wearing masks while meeting with members of the public in the city of Harare.
A Harare resident, Paul Majaira, who was unprotected, said he sometimes forgot to protect himself.
An unnamed man was waiting to withdraw money from a bank in the city when rivals confessed to Studio7 that he was aware that the number of COVID-19 cases in the country was rising.
But he said while he knew that standing up for one's rights was important, the issue of fear of interference was the key to uniting people in a queue.
Simon Zhou, who had been waiting for a bus to go to Mt Pleasant Heights, said they had been in the same place for four hours, which could have infected them.
He said people were not being monitored for temperature or hand-washing when boarding Zupco buses as was the case when the country first opened.
Secretary of Health in the MDC Alliance, and former health minister in the coalition government, Dr. Henry Madzorera, said people should protect their health by following the recommendations of health professionals.
Dr. He also urged residents to stay indoors during the winter.
Deputy Minister of Health, John Mangwiro, told Studio 7 by telephone that more people were being educated about the disease and more people were being tested to prevent the spread of the disease.
Speaking at a meeting of his party's Politburo, the president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, said the rising number of COVID-19 victims would also prompt them to reconsider the ban.
The number of Covid-19 deaths and deaths is not limited to Zimbabwe, as is the case in many countries around the world, which has more than 12 million people, more than 88,212 in Zimbabwe.
Doctors working in public hospitals and several other hospital workers have protested at Mpilo Central Hospital in Bulawayo expressing their displeasure at the alleged abduction of one of them, Doctor Peter Magombeyi on Saturday in Harare.
The doctors, who included members of United Bulawayo Hospitals, had closed the doors of Mpilo Hospital chanting and seized notes expressing displeasure at the abduction of Doctor Magombeyi, who was allegedly abducted from his home in Harare by unknown individuals.
"People are still being killed in this area which is very disturbing and frightening," said Ngongoma.
KwaZulu-Natal police spokeswoman Colonel Thembeka Mbele said Plessislaer police were investigating two murder cases.
No one has been arrested.
Parents frustrated and closed the school
PARENTS were protesting when a car tires broke out in front of Putini High School in Mangweni, Umtshezi.
It is alleged that the parents complained about the poor condition of the children at the school.
It is said that children are cramped in classrooms, and there is no water or electricity.
Spokesman Inkosi Langalibalele Municipality, Sifiso Mdakane, said the community was complaining about the Department of Education's reluctance to build a school.
"The study is being held in a temporary shelter set up by the Department of Education.
The community is not happy about this, "said Mdakane.
Local councilor Nkosingiphile Mpembe said: "In 2010, temporary classrooms were set up, people were given the hope that the school would continue to be built, which has never been done before.
The situation of the children studying is not good, the old water stays in the tanks, it is not suitable for students to drink.
"He said that, after the protest, an inspector arrived who promised that today a team from the Department of Education would come and talk to the parents about the matter.
KwaZulu-Natal education department spokesman Muzi Mahlambi said they had contacted their regional office to deal with the matter.
Couples beaten to death for allegedly stealing
POLICE are searching for suspects who killed a couple by beating them in Shayamoya in Mpumuza, outside Pietermaritzburg, on suspicion of theft.
Londeka Mvelase and Mxolisi Mchunu were allegedly beaten by members of the public, who died on Sunday.
The couple lived together.
They were accused of stealing about R2 500 and a neighbour's cellphone.
The respondent found that even after apologizing, they were not stopped beating and stoned.
Women and men were reportedly present when they were beaten.
A local councilor, Jabu Zondo, visited the area yesterday to reprimand the incident.
Speaking to Solezwe, he said although they were accused of theft, they should not have been killed.
"I'm back in the community.
There are cries of crime, it really bothers us in this area, however it is not allowed for the community to take revenge.
You must call the police and they will arrest the perpetrators.
Based on the information I received, the suspects were accused of shoplifting.
Stability is in place right now, there is peace.
The boy is not local, the woman is local.
I will still be looking for his family, and we will meet with them tomorrow (today) to discuss the matter, "said Ngubo.
KwaZulu-Natal police spokesman Captain Nqobile Gwala said two murder cases had been opened and police were still searching for the suspects.
Efforts by Solezwe to locate the families of the victims were unsuccessful yesterday as their numbers were not available, until press time.
The Guptas were smuggling money to various banks
AFRICAN NEWS AGENCY (ANA) It is estimated that R49 billion was misappropriated by the state, according to Shadow World director Paul Edward Holden, according to an investigation.
The director said this at a commission headed by Judge Raymond Zondo yesterday.
According to him, they found that the amount was R49 157 323 233.
68 was regularly deposited in different banks.
Holden said this testifying to the money that was deposited and withdrawn from various banks.
Leading witness, Advocate Matthew Chaskalson, was questioned by Holden.
Holden told the commission that his testimony was based on reports and how money was being paid to Gupta's businesses.
He alleged that the Guptas smuggled R287 million from the Estina Dairy Farm Project.
The plan was to develop farmers in the Free State.
Holden said the Guptas began smuggling money a year before the Estina program began.
The Free State government began funding the Estina program in June 2011 but the Guptas began smuggling money into the program in May 2011.
"They used the Estina system to hide and smuggle money, before the program started," Holden said.
According to the report, the government paid R287 million to the Gupta family, and the money was deposited in various company accounts to make it look like it was making a profit of R880million between 2012 and 2016.
The commission continues.
A video that shows everything about the death of the Bridegroom
A RELEVANT video has surfaced of the day Lindani Myeni was killed in Hawaii, USA
In the video, the bridegroom appears as he enters a house in Honolulu, wearing a crown and walks in behind two of the so-called couple.
He appears to have gone to the temple near their home.
He takes off his shoes from the temple and apologizes to the two men.
It is said that after about 40 seconds, the Bridegroom was seen leaving the house and apologizing to the couple.
Just then a woman appeared and called 911, reporting a burglary.
The woman told police she said her husband was in their house breaking into the house.
According to the homeowners, nothing was taken from their home.
Proponents of her case have been working to make the actual transcript of this statement available online.
Attorney Jim Bickerton, however, said the court had forced officials to release the video without filtering it.
Police were also asked to provide records of 911 calls on the day of the incident.
In an interview Bickerton had with Mr. William Denselow on eNCA he revealed that when the Bridegroom left the house he was not upset.
"His last words were to apologize until he disappeared," Bickerton said.
In the first video released police appear to the Bridegroom who asked them who they were, who shot him dead as he died in hospital.
He said they did not know Myeni was apologetic and police had the video but called a press conference saying they were attacked unnecessarily.
Bickerton said they would continue to search for the truth so that it could be known what was happening.
It is alleged that a split in the IFP erupted in Melmoth
They accused IFP councilors of harassing security guards who allegedly shot and wounded three members of the public at a party meeting in Thubalethu, Mthonjaneni (Melmoth), on Sunday afternoon.
It is said that the guards blasted by the Mayor dispersing the crowd of public members who said the bha · monarch closed the entrance to the convention hall.
One section of the community blamed the party's leadership for trying to bring them to their knees as they demanded the return of an IFP-fired local councilor.
The meeting was called by the IFP leadership in the King Cetshwayo region to clarify the issue that has divided the community, as last week he protested against the reinstatement of all expelled councilors, including former mayor Bonginkosi Biyela.
A member of the public who was part of the protest at the time of the shooting, who did not want to be named, accused IFP leaders and councilors present by telling security guards to shoot them so that they could not vent their anger.
"We were protesting on the street because we were not allowed to enter the hall because it was full of people from other areas.
The problem started when we detained another member of the public who was trying to force his way through a closed road, and security guards and councilors who were present got the chance to shoot, "said the member.
The IFP leader in Mthonjaneni, who did not want to be named, said members of the public in the area were divided.
"Last week, there was a protest demanding clarification on the dismissal of their councilor from the ward.
A meeting has been arranged for all councilors and IFP regional leaders to provide feedback to the public.
"The problem started when some members of the public stood in line outside the hall, and when the meeting started, they blocked the entrance to the hall, pelted stones at security guards and forced them to shoot because the community was attacking them.
Some members of the public were armed with firearms, "he said.
The meeting was attended by newly elected mayor Mbangiseni Biyela, his deputy Phumlani Ntombela and all councilors in the Mthonjaneni Municipality.
Attempts to get comment from the regional leadership were unsuccessful as their space calls could be intercepted and messages could not be answered.
A spokesman for the municipality, Thami Shangase, said the meeting was not planned by the municipality, adding that the matter was in the hands of the police.
Contacted, IFP national spokesman Mkhuleko Hlengwa said the party would issue a statement on the matter today.
Violence began with the dismissal of Biyela (former mayor) and four councilors, creating divisions among members of the public, especially IFP members in charge of the municipality.
KwaZulu-Natal police spokeswoman Colonel Thembeka Mbele said charges of attempted murder and civil unrest had been opened at the Melmoth police station.
Mbete denies ignoring corruption
FORMER Speaker of Parliament Baleka Mbethe has dismissed allegations of corruption, saying some of it was a matter of debate.
Ms Mbete, responding to questions from a commission of inquiry into state control by a minority, alleging that some members of Parliament were involved in corruption, said in some cases the allegations were uncontrollable, while others seemed to be rumored because knowledgeable people had no evidence.
He even cited the issue of weapons involving former president Jacob Zuma as an example of the fact that he received a letter written on difficult material but did not know from whom it came.
"Chairperson, I know there have been people who have testified here, and the way the ANC is run.
I also know that the speaker has come here and said that you can't just talk about what you hear being said.
"I can speak of the arms case, the case that was postponed yesterday (Monday).
There is a letter placed under the door of my office.
The letter contained shocking and shocking details but was never signed and no one had written it.
Parliament is so busy, I could not take this book without knowing who wrote it and we talked about it.
The problem is who wrote it, that person had to come to me and understand me.
I am trying to answer now that in Parliament we would not be able to discuss the rumors, "Mbete said.
In June 2017, he was asked what he was doing in a case involving the Gupta family.
"I don't remember very well but I know it's about the leak of news affecting the Guptas.
I think by the time those stories came out, we would have called those who wrote them.
Let's see what they have to say about the world around you.
So that we can get an explanation and be able to do our job, "said Ms Mbethe.
They blamed NSFAS for the death of a student
STUDENTS are blaming NSFAS for the death of a student who allegedly died after sleeping for two days outside the entrance of the institution, Durban Tvet College, in Cato Manor, on Saturday.
It is alleged that the deceased, Yonwabo Manyanya (26), a graduate of Electrical Infrastructure Construction, was evicted by his tenants due to rent arrears.
The deceased was forced to sleep two days outside the center because he had nowhere else to hide following his eviction from his residence on Monday.
It was reported on Wednesday that the deceased was not in good health.
His fellow students reportedly told him he had to find a place to hide.
Yonwabo, who is said to have been living in the area, reportedly died on Saturday in the flat where his friend lived in Durban North.
One of the students, who was close to the deceased, who asked not to be named, said they were shocked by what had happened, and criticized NSFAS for dragging their feet in getting funding.
"I am not in a good mood after the avoidable incident.
I want NSFAS to intervene because it looks like there will be more incidents like this as winter sets in, "said the student.
A family member of the deceased, who could not be reached for comment, said they could not speak to the media about the incident.
KwaZulu-Natal police spokesman Captain Nqobile Gwala said no case had been reported.
The financial crisis has also spread to the college's Asherville Campus campus, Sydenham, as more than 50 students protested outside the gates yesterday.
The students told Isolezwe they slept on the street outside the center because they had been evicted from their unpaid accommodation.
Most of the students, who were wearing pajamas, came from as far away as Gauteng, Eastern Cape and Mpumalanga.
Mr Siyabonga Sambu, from Ermelo, Mpumalanga, a third-year Community Safety degree student, criticized the institution and NSFAS for fussing over them when they inquired about their funding applications.
He said since February they had not received any funding, the tenants had been guiding students in employment.
"There is no money for food.
Applicants were provided with transportation costs and a small amount received.
The center is useless and calls for the guards to evict us, "said Sambu.
This was confirmed by Zodwa Mabanga from Johannesburg who said he was living on the street because he had been evicted.
Dr Mthabisi Bhebhe, general secretary of the Mpilo Hospital Doctors Association, said he was unhappy with the outcome and wanted Dr Magombeyi to be found alive. Dr Bhebhe, a former secretary of the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association, also said he wanted his grievances resolved.
Another doctor, Dr Tawanda Manjonjo, who claims to have worked with Dr Magombeyi, said many doctors were now fearing for his life, but added that unless Doctor Magombeyi was found, he would return to work only if his grievances were resolved.
The director of Mpilo Hospital, Leonard Mabandi, said that as far as he knew, doctors had promised to return to work after a short strike.
A man who identified himself as Walter, who claims to have had his wife treated, says that many patients have not been seen by doctors.
Doctors are on strike after Doctor Magombeyi was abducted. Doctors have been out of work for two weeks saying they will no longer be able to afford transportation.
The government says it is drafting a law banning doctors from striking, but human rights experts say this is unconstitutional.
Thousands of people lined the streets of Kentucky here in the United States bid farewell to boxing champion Muhammad Ali who died on Friday last week at the age of 74.
Other celebrities in attendance include former US President Bill Clinton, boxing champions George Foreman, Mike Tyson and Lenox Lewis and Will Smith, a well-known film star.
President Obama sent a message of condolence. A Zimbabwean national living in Louisville, Kentucky, Patricia Chikanga, says the country can learn a lot from honoring deceased athletes.
"I have learned that those who represent the country and die like Muhammad Ali should be honored as we have seen with this boxer. The whole city is full of tourists and locals who have come to mourn Ali. The other day we saw his box coming from the airport. It touched my heart to see that I hope this will be done at home for our athletes when they die, ”Ms Chikanga told Studio 7.
The Zimbabwe Council of Churches (ZCC) says it is deeply saddened by the experience of Matabeleland South, Matabeleland North and Bulawayo districts as they handed out protective clothing to nurses working in church hospitals in the region.
ZCC has mobilized protective clothing to donate to nurses, doctors and other staff in church hospitals in the three districts.
ZCC secretary general, Pastor Doctor Kenneth Mtata told Studio 7 that they found many people hungry and worried which upset members of their group.
He asserted that his confession had been obtained through torture, and that his confession had been obtained through torture.
He said the government should put politics aside and immediately intervene in helping people who are starving.
Dr Mtata said his organization would inform the government of all its findings so that it could assist as soon as possible as many households are suffering from hunger and anxiety.
The Zimbabwean dollar continues to weaken and inflation continues to skyrocket as in 2007 and 2008.
The American dollar is being traded for $ 32 to $ 40.
Food, fuel, and other commodities have become so expensive that some have called for the use of the national currency.
Speaking at a rally in January, the president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, said he had regained control of the local dollar as no country could survive without its own currency.
But the leader of the main opposition party, Nelson Chamisa, also said the use of the national currency would not work.
But an economist, Professor Gift Mugano, says politicians are not the ones who tell the stock market what to do.
The president of the Confederation of Zimbabwe Retailers, Denford Mutashu, also acknowledged the sale of foreign exchange.
The head of the Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce, Chris Mugaga, also said the need to work together for the dollar to work properly.
But Professor Mugano says no dog master has slept in the carrier because even the government has refused to accept the national dollar.
ZCTU secretary general Japhet Moyo also told the employer that things were not going well.
Some economists say the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe, RBZ, is in the process of printing money that could keep the country on the brink of collapse.
But RBZ governor, Dr John Mangudya, says this is a lie.
Zimbabwe started using foreign currency, including the US dollar in 2019, but later returned to using only the local dollar last year.
The Zimbabwe Vulnerability Assessment Committee, ZimVac, estimates that 59 percent of Zimbabweans in rural areas are facing starvation from January to July next year.
But in the past month, only about 1 percent of the population needed food in rural areas.
The worst affected areas are Matabeleland North, Masvingo and the Midlands.
Fewsnet, an organization that monitors food security, also says that many city dwellers need help this year as the country's economy deteriorates.
The people who are most affected by the food crisis are residents of Chipinge and Chimanimani where the Cyclone Idai has been hit by a cyclone.
A Chimanimani resident, Joel Dhumakwezu, says his area is receiving food aid from the World Vision organization after those in need of help were registered with the Red Cross.
But they say the unregistered are facing a terrible famine.
Some Gweru residents say they are worried about the spread of coronavirus or Covid-19 following the protection of the city by some local immigrants.
About 120 people have been detained at Gweru Polytechnic since Friday last week.
As many as 30 other people have been detained at Mkoba Teachers' College since yesterday.
These people are among the Zimbabweans being controlled from South Africa and Botswana.
Media secretary Nick Mangwana tweeted that Mkoba Teachers College could accommodate 500 foreign nationals. They also said Gweru Polytechnic is already full.
Resident Ms Enita Nyati told Studio 7 that they feared the spread of coronavirus because some of these people may have been infected and that these people could flee their protected areas.
But another resident, Nyasha Mahwende, said the people should be treated fairly as they are Zimbabweans and relatives and friends of other people.
They also said that in addition to fearing the spread of the disease, they were also concerned that some of these people could be involved in illegal activities and emphasized the need for strong protection.
Studio 7 has been denied access to the two sites by security officials, who say they need permission from the Midlands regional government office.
We have heard from Midlands Minister Larry Mavima and former provincial medical director Dr Reginald Mhene but when we arrived at his office he was said to be in a meeting.
Experts say that in Botswana and South Africa where they were part of the so-called illegal immigrants they were arrested, which put them at risk of contracting coronavirus.
Gweru Mayor Josiah Makombe confirmed to VOA's Studio 7 for Zimbabwe that the coronavirus or Isolation District Hospital is still under construction.
He urged residents to adhere to the guidelines for preventing coronavirus infection but said they should not be afraid, saying they were confident that those who were diagnosed with the virus could be treated.
People's Democratic Party leader Lucia Matibenga, who is also a resident of Gweru, said it was the government's responsibility to keep the returnees safe and to ensure the safety of all other residents.
The Midlands has not yet infected anyone infected with the coronavirus. But the continued repatriation of Zimbabweans from neighboring countries is causing some to shake their heads in fear of the disease.
The president's office on Wednesday held a meeting with doctors on strike for the first time since the doctors began their strike on December 1 last year.
Some senior doctors and specialists or Registrars and Consultants have also gone on strike on Wednesday. Many people in the country say people are losing their lives because of the doctors' strike.
The president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, returned from holiday on Tuesday to join his predecessor, General Constantino Chiwenga, in trying to resolve the doctors' strike.
Spokesman Nick Mangwana said he believed Mnangagwa had returned to work to help put out the blaze.
On Tuesday, Mr Chiwenga had demanded that doctors return to work.
Senior doctors under the Zimbabwe Medical Association have given the government 48 hours to resolve the issue of junior doctors and have gone on strike.
But Mnangagwa's office held a meeting with the leaders of the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association, Dr Elias Muzoremba, to hear the doctors' grievances.
In a letter to reporters, the doctors told the president's office that they were being misled by the Health Services Board.
The doctors say they want the government to address the issue of drug shortages in hospitals and other facilities and to provide them with US dollars in exchange for RTGS.
These doctors are currently earning $ 329 a month. But this money comes in RTGS.
But an economics professor at Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University, Professor Gift Mugano, told Studio 7 that the government could not afford the money at all.
We also asked Dr Mugano how since some companies are now charging in US dollars for their products, how can it be improved?
The head of the Community Working Group on Health, Mr Itai Rusike, told Studio 7 that it was important for the government to give the health sector more money in the budget.
Many in the country are also complaining that Health Insurance cards are not working and when buying medicines from pharmacies they are being told to bring in US dollars just to stay home.
The Warriors national soccer team has left for South Africa for the Cosafa tournament.
The team faces two battles in the Cosafa Cup and the Africa Cup of Nations, which they must win decisively starting with the Cosafa Cup on Saturday.
In addition to using the Cosafa Cup as a preparation for the Afcon, Zimbabwe must once again defend the trophy, which it won for the sixth time last year, hoping to strengthen its reputation as a North African football champion again this year.
Due to financial constraints, Zimbabwe has not been able to find teams to play in pre-Afcon qualifiers and Warriors coach Sunday Chidzambwa says Cosafa is the only way to strengthen his squad.
Chidzambwa is also looking to add to his reputation in the Cosafa tournament after becoming the first coach to win the trophy four times since the tournament was launched in 1997.
Chidzambwa won the Cosafa Cup in 2003, 2009, 2017 and 2018.
Other Zimbabwean players such as Tendai Darikwa, Admiral Muskwe, and Alec Mudimu also want to appear in the Cosafa Cup which they have been feeling unaware of.
This year, Zimbabwe has the strongest team in all of the tournament as it is rocking their team heading to Afcon including other players such as Knowledge Musona, and Marvelous Nakamba.
A member of the Zimbabwe Warriors Fan Club, Shingirai Miti, says there is no competition for Cosafa because the trophy has always been Zimbabwean.
Having won the Cosafa Cup, the Warriors are looking forward to the first pass from their rally at the Afcon tournament in which they face Egypt in their first match.
The club's player, Ronald Pfumbidzai, says they are not going to Egypt to add existing teams.
Zimbabwe is in Group A with Egypt, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Uganda where Warriors manager Wellington Mpandare is confident of leaving.
Zimbabwe is leaving South Africa at the end of the Cosafa tournament on June 8 en route to Nigeria on its way to the Afcon in Egypt.
For many athletes, the Christmas holiday season is a time to be with family and friends, while others take this opportunity to do different things. But this year at a time when some are visiting family and friends after a year without seeing each other, FC Platinum coach Lizwe Sweswe and his team are not getting the chance as they are in Cairo, Egypt, in their match against Al Ahly in the Caf Champions League.
This will be FC Platinum's third match in the competition, after being beaten 2-1 by Sudan's Al Hilal in the first leg, losing 3-0 to Tunisia's Etoile duSahel.
Sweswe says they will be at work working in the hope that Christmas will give them the good fortune to win after being beaten in both games. Another football coach, Darlington Dodo of Caps United, says after failing to win the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League trophy, this is the time to make amends where there was no standing. But the head of the Zimbabwe Olympic Committee, Anna Mguni, said they headed to their home to see relatives and friends who had not been seen for a long time. Basketball player, Nyarai Musambudzi, has a similar plan to Ms Mguni's but is heading to Masvingo Triangle coach Taurayi Mangwiro says his workplace is so far away from his family that football has now stopped giving time to his family. This is also the case for former World Cup netball player Ursula Ndlovu, who says he has spent so much time in the camp that he will now be with his family and friends in Bulawayo having fun together. But the chairman of the Zimbabwe Volleyball Association, Ringisai Mapondera, says there is nothing better than a volleyball game at Christmas. Mapondera said he would be gathering with family and friends at his home in Harare to play the game in celebration of this time. There are others like Mapondera including boxer Charles Manyuchi, who says they are taking this time to prepare hard for their next season in anticipation of a strong harvest next year.
The Amalgamated Rural Teachers Union of Zimbabwe (ARTUZ) says it has notified the government that it must resolve its grievances within 14 days, failing which it will go on strike.
The union says it wants teachers' salaries to be in US dollars, or to be paid in the equivalent of five hundred US dollars.
The ARTZ report was presented on Friday in the hands of the government through the civil service, the Public Service Commission and the Ministry of Finance.
Studio7 has not been able to hear from the government side on the matter, as Information Minister Monica Mutsvangwa has not been contacted on her mobile phone.
ARTUZ president, Obert Masaraure, says as coaches, they also want a better life, but it is not happening as they wish.
Masaraure says although the government says it is worried about the economy, it can improve things if it fights corruption in its branches, as well as manages public finances.
Masaraure says much of the government's money is being spent on non-essential services such as foreign trips, car insurance and other things that can be set aside in order to provide better salaries for public servants.
Masaraure says in his view, there is money in the country that can fix the problems, but the problem is that the national treasury is not being managed properly, and they do not see the need to fix things from government officials.
Foreign nationals are complaining about the rising cost of obtaining new passports or renewing existing contracts.
This follows a move by the government on Monday this week to announce that it had given permission to the Registrar-General's Secretary-General to start charging Zimbabweans abroad $ 388 million.
Speaking to reporters, Interior Minister Kazembe Kazembe said his department was aware of the high expectations of people to get their passports as soon as possible, and that people who are struggling to get these documents, especially those abroad, have expired documents.
Kazembe said in order to ensure that foreign nationals have legal documents in their home countries, the government has seen fit to raise the price, and that these documents will be issued immediately.
But some expatriates feel that the government has taken this step to raise foreign exchange.
A passport holder in the country pays an average of $ 53 for the RTGS, while the one who wants to get out within three days is charged $ 250.
Requirements for a passport issued within one day are charged $ 380.
The chairman of the parliamentary foreign affairs committee, Kindness Paradza, said his committee strongly supported the move to raise passport fees as a way to help these people create access to their documents, without compromising their residency in their home countries.
Paradza said many expatriates had heard of the theft of relatives and friends and paid large sums of money for their passports.
Isaac Nyaumba, a Zimbabwean national, said he was thrilled to have the opportunity to meet and be photographed by world-renowned footballer Neymar.
Neymar, born in Sao Paulo, Brazil and his full name is Neymar da Silva Santos Júnior.
Neymar is currently playing for Barcelona's Spanish club along with another footballer, Lionel Messi. He also plays for Brazil, who led the Under-23 team to a gold medal for the first time in the Olympics.
But although many say Nyaumba and Neymar's picture was taken in Victoria Falls, they told Studio 7 that it was taken while working at the Ukutula Conservation Center, near Pretoria in South Africa.
The Mighty Warriors women's soccer team is facing a major game in its history, with the public wanting Zimbabwe to win in order to enter the country's sporting history.
The Mighty Warriors are entering Rufaro Stadium on Sunday in their biggest match since 1980 when Zimbabwe began international competition.
The women's soccer team is facing the Indomitable Lionesses of Cameroon in a match that will determine whether or not Zimbabwe is able to qualify for next year's Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro.
The Mighty Warriors were beaten 2-1 when the two teams met in Yaounde two weeks ago but they only need a 1-0 win to qualify for the World Cup.
After qualifying for the tournament, the Mighty Warriors make it the second team in 35 years to compete in the tournament following the 1980 gold hockey girls.
But the Mighty Warriors go down in history as the first team to compete successfully in the tournament as hockey girls went to Moscow after being invited to the shortlisted teams.
Warriors Fan Club member, Zivanai Moroyiwa, says they are delaying the game saying that the Mighty Warriors will make the public happy by doing what the team or any team has not done in the last 35 years.
Caps United fan Tonderayi Matimura says looking at the Mighty Warriors' performance when the two teams met two weeks ago, they are confident the Mighty Warriors will take control and win again.
The Zimbabwe Football Association has recognized the importance of the public in the game and has arranged for the public to pay a one-dollar fee to watch this important game.
Sports commentator Andrew Rwodzi says more people will be in the stadium as the dollar is a money that everyone can afford to pay to watch this important game.
Mr Matimura said he would also be present at the stadium as the dollar is a cheaper currency than the three dollars that Zifa calls for.
The team's coach, Shadreck Mlauzi, has built a strong team that includes both seniors and juniors and he expects players such as Rudo Neshamba and Rutendo Machingura to set fire to Sunday in front of their supporters.
At the same time the Warriors team will be at Bourfields Stadium where they face Lesotho in the African Nations Championship match which weighs less than the Mighty Warriors match.
The club's coach, Kalisto Pasuwa, sacked three players Hardlife Zvirekwi and Justice Jangano of Caps United and Ronald Chitiyo of Dynamos on sexual offenses but Muroyiwa said the Warriors did not stop small teams like Lesotho.
The Warrriors are hoping to win two games between the two teams to advance to the finals of the African Nations Championships for the fourth time in a row after qualifying for the 2009, 2012 and 2014 tournaments.
But the eyes and minds of the public are on the Mighty Warriors game.
Street vendors in Harare's interior and members of the Tajamuka / Sesijikile movement have joined forces to fight against the city police and the Zimbabwe Republic Police, who have reportedly forcibly evicted them from their businesses.
The same thing happened in the town of Norton, where street vendors reportedly refused to be evicted while selling at Katanga.
Tajamuka / Sesijikile spokesperson, Makomborero Haruzivishe, said some of the street vendors were members of his organization who were constantly harassed by the police.
Haruzivishe said by the time we went on air they were still at the police station to try to determine how many people had been arrested in the incident, but said they were aware of one person.
Harare City Council spokesman Michael Chideme said they had not heard of the incident as they were not in town during the day.
But the government, through the Ministry of Information, posted a message on Twitter stating that many youths had been stoned to death by police.
The government has also said it has video evidence of the teenagers stabbing police officers, which will be used in court to impale the detainees.
We have not been able to hear from the police on the matter.
The Zimbabwe Community in South Africa, an organization representing Zimbabweans living and working in South Africa, says it is deeply concerned about the increase in robberies in Johannesburg's suburbs, which are being perpetrated by suspected Zimbabweans.
The group says the crimes, mainly in Hillbrow, Berea and Yeoville, are home to many foreign nationals, including Zimbabweans, including kidnappers, kidnappers, stabbed and murderers.
Zimbabwe Community in South Africa spokesperson Bongani Mkwananzi said they were planning to meet with the police to raise the issue, and to urge the police to take serious action.
He said February 6, which will be next month, his organization is looking forward to meeting with the police in charge of the provinces to work together to address the problem.
They also say that the police should be patrolling the area, but they are often unavailable, which will lead to thieves and robbers doing Jojina's bidding.
Mr Mkwananzi said many of the victims knew of some of the perpetrators in their own language, so the police who are committed to the crime should be working with Zimbabweans living in these areas.
Others who have spoken to Studio7 are also advocating for the deployment of troops in these areas in order to stop these crimes.
South Africans have long accused foreign nationals of increasing crime, drug trafficking, and prostitution.
Many people say that the year 2019 will mark the beginning of a difficult political and economic year for the country.
The New Patriotic Party (NPP) Member of Parliament (MP) for Dormaa East, Mr Paul Apraku Twum Barimah, has filed an urgent question in Parliament to demand the cost of chartered flights that former President John Mahama used for his overseas travels from 2013 and 2017.
He said the question, which was directed to the Minister of Finance, Mr Ken Ofori-Attah, would help him and Ghanaians to seek data to support ongoing discussions in the public domain concerning presidential chartered flights by the former president.
“I have filed the question to also understand how much it cost this country between 2013 to 2017 when former President Mahama was on series of travels using chartered flights,” he said.
No equalisation
Throwing light on his aim for filing the urgent question, which is currently in the Speaker’s Office, Mr Barimah said his question had no political connotation.
“It is about time we took a decision as a country on chartered presidential flights and we can only take such decision when we know the trend, which must be established from what has been done previously.
“Has there been a precedence? And if there is a precedence, what was done? And is there an official guideline to these presidential travels? So clearly, I do not want to achieve any political equalisation,” he said.
He added: “I only want us to have a proper debate and discourse so that we can make proper references. Today, it might be my government but tomorrow it will be somebody’s government, so if we do not seek proper clarification and end these back and forth travels, we will always find ourselves in this situation,” he stated.
Ablakwa’s urgent question
The Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr Samuel Okudzeto Ablakwa, also filed an urgent question in Parliament demanding that the government explains why President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo did not use the presidential aircraft for a recent trip to France.
According to the National Democratic Congress (NDC) North Tongu Member of Parliament (MP), "It is an outrage and a blatant betrayal for Ghana to own a presidential aircraft in perfect working condition" and charter aircraft for presidential travel.”
He also estimated that the President's trip cost in excess of GH¢2 million.
The Bono East Regional Minister, Mr Kwasi Adu-Gyan, has commended the regional leadership of the New Patriotic Party (NPP) and the National Democratic Congress (NDC) for their cooperation towards peace in the region.
“I am proud and extremely excited to see the NPP and the NDC in Bono East working together peacefully, in resolving the political impasse between them,” he said.
Mr Adu-Gyan said peace created an enabling environment for development to thrive and added that without peace it would be difficult for development to progress in the region.
The regional minister gave the commendation in a statement issued after a forum in Techiman.
The forum was attended by representatives of the NPP and the NDC, representatives of traditional authorities, security agencies, the Electoral Commission (EC), the National Commission or Civic Education (NCCE) and civil society organisations (CSOs).
The forum, which was organised by the National Peace Council with sponsorship from the Commonwealth Secretariat, was on the theme: “Countering Post 2020 Election Violence, and Building Consensus for Greater Political Tolerance in Ghana”.
Topics discussed centred on dealing with election-related violence and resolving election-related complaints and disputes.
Mr Adu-Gyan said Ghanaians ought to be proud of the country being ranked the second most peaceful in Africa by the Global Peace Index Report 2021, and underlined the importance for the NPP and the NDC to collectively help to preserve and strengthen the prevailing peace in the country.
“This achievement is a collective effort of the chiefs, political parties, security services, as well as the Executive, Legislature, Judiciary and the media,” he said.
He gave an assurance that the Regional Coordinating Council (RCC) would ensure the required peace needed for development was maintained.
In a presentation on Electoral Justice, the Executive Secretary of the Bono Regional Peace Council, Alhaji Suallah Abdallah Quandah, said electoral justice played a decisive role in ensuring the stability of the political system in the country.
“The role of electoral justice, although not new, has become recognised as a crucial factor in all democracies, whether emerging or established,” it said and explained electoral justice was a prerequisite for preventing political and election violence.
Alhaji Quandah stressed the need for periodic review of the nation’s electoral justice system to ensure it fulfilled its function of guaranteeing free, fair and credible elections.
The MP for Abuakwa South Samuel Atta Akyea has assured Ghanaians a Nana Akufo-Addo-led government will ameliorate their plight when the NPP takes over power from January 7, 2017.
According to him, Ghanaians will experience economic freedom under the leadership of Nana Akufo-Addo due to prudent economic policies that will be rolled out.
“January 7 will be a new era which is going to bring our prosperity and our freedom, especially economic freedom which Ghanaians are craving. Ghanaians are going to notice that God has saved the country from hardship,” Atta Akyea said during a donation to Asiakwa SOS in the East Akim Municipality in the Eastern region.
He said he is ready to serve in a ministerial capacity should he be offered one by President-elect Nana Akufo-Addo.
Some of the items he presented include seven bags of rice, cooking oils, salt, sugar, milk, drinks and undisclosed amount of money.
Three sisters who slept in their mother’s drinking spot have been found dead at Tarkwa-Nsuta in the Tarkwa-Nsuaem municipality in the Western region.
The three died after inhaling fumes from a generator.
Chief Inspector George Sekyi of the Tarkwa-Nsuta station office said on December 18, he received a call that three children had died in a drinking spot.
He said he and his officers rushed to the scene but were told that the deceased Abena Amos, 15, Arabi Dadzi, 13 and Akaba Dadzi, 7, have already been deposited at the Tarkwa Government Hospital morgue awaiting autopsy.
In an interview with Starr News’ Emmanuel Ohene Gyan Mr. Sekyi said the deceased lived with their mother, who operates the ‘Golden City Kitchen’ drinking spot in the Tarkwa Nsuem municipality.
He said they decided to pass the night in the drinking bar after they assisted their mother to sell beverages.
The station officer said on December 17, there was a power outage as result of a heavy downpour that occurred during the day and  because of that Madam Dadzi put a generator in the bar to enable the deceased have access to light as they  slept. The mother of the girls later found them dead when she went to the shop the next morning.
A fourth sister who was also found unconscious is receiving medical treatment. Police in the area are investigating the incident.
lagbearer of the National Democratic Congress (NDC) John Mahama says he will pursue the Chief Executive Officer for Menzgold Nana Appiah Mensah popularly known as NAM 1, to retrieve held up investment of customers if he wins the December polls.
Speaking at Tarkwa-Nsuaem in the Western Region, Mr Mahama wondered why the Akufo-Addo government does not appear to be interested in confiscating the properties of NAM1 but rather venting their anger on customers.
“What is so special about NAM 1 that Akufo-Addo is shielding him? Why do you unleash the police on innocent customers while NAM 1 walks free,” he fumed.
He assured that his next government will thoroughly investigate NAM1 and his directors and use all legitimate means to retrieve the funds.
he Circuit Court in Accra presided over by Her Honour Ellen Asamoah on September 7 adjourned the case in which Chief Executive officer (CEO) of Menzgold Nana Appiah Mensah (NAM1) has been adjourned to October 1, 2020.
The State had previously on June 24, 2020, filed new charges against NAM 1 at the Accra Circuit Court.
Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Sylvester Asare then told the Court that his directives were that he should hold on to the new charges and the plea taking of the accused.
On July 20, ASP Asare told the court that, they were seriously working to advise the court on the matter.
To this end, he prayed the court for a long adjournment after which they would have been able to advise the court on their intention of prosecution on the matter.
He said when the advice is ready, they will issue hearing notice to the accused persons to appear before the court to to do the needful.
But in court on Monday, prosecutor prayed for an adjournment and it was granted.
The accused person NAM 1 was present in court.
The Circuit Court on July 26, 2019 granted NAM 1 bail in the sum of GH¢ 1 billion cedis with five sureties, three to be justified.
He had pleaded not guilty to all initial 13 charges levelled against him by the State. The state had since amended its charged sheet which is yet to be moved.
He is also to report to the police every Wednesday at 10:00 hours.
He was initially charged with abetment of crime, defrauding by false pretences, carrying on a deposit-taking business without licence, sale of minerals without licence, unlawful deposit-taking, and money laundering.
It is alleged that the accused had taken various sums of money, totalling GH¢1.6 billion from customers.
The surge in the use of Okada for commercial purposes is increasingly becoming worrying.
The police have also indicated an increase in incidents of crime, accidents, and violations of road traffic regulations involving motorcycles.
Without any doubt, the Okada menace is getting out of hand and something drastic needs to be done to inject sanity into its operations.
We have on countless occasions raised serious concerns about the use of Okada.
At this moment, the nation is clearly confronted with the challenge of dealing with the usage of motorbikes and tricycles, especially for commercial purposes.
Parliament in 2012 passed the Road Traffic Regulations, 2012 (L.I. 2180) into law to regulate road transport in the country. 
Among other things, Regulation 128 under sections one to four (Legislative Instrument (L.I.) 2180) outlaws the use of motorbikes popularly referred to as ‘Okada’ and tricycles for commercial purposes except for courier and delivery services. It also directs the licensing authority not to register a motorcycle to carry a fare-paying passenger.
This legislation, notwithstanding, okada and tricycle (pragya) have taken over the transportation system in many parts of the country. 
In the rural communities, the okada and pragya come in handy as the only means of transport to markets, health facilities and other towns, among other places.
For people in the cities, they are able to beat the heavy traffic by patronizing the bikes. 
The bikes also serve as a cheap source of transportation as they are less expensive. 
They also come in handy because of the absence of an efficient and reliable public transport system.
However, many people abhor okada and pragya because of the nuisance they create on the roads and most particularly the lack of respect for traffic regulations.
The high incidence of accidents and fatalities associated with the reckless use of Okada, is also disturbing.
Indeed, many organisations, including the Ghana Medical Association and the National Road Safety Authority, have called for a total ban on their usage as a mode of transport in the country.
This has left the country in a deep-blue sea. 
This is because, despite the existence of the law banning their use for commercial purposes, they are a major source of relief to many Ghanaians.
For us at the Daily Graphic, we think that the country should relook at the law comprehensively and come up with the most appropriate measures that will suit the needs of the population in line with best practice. 
In India, for instance, pragya is a major means of transport but we have not heard of complaints as we have in Ghana. 
So, what can we learn from India and introduce it into our system?
We need to bear in mind that with the increasing rate of unemployment, the okada and tricycle operators see it as a source of income which caters for them and their families.
But as of now, okadas and pragyas are a nuisance and we at the Daily Graphic believe that with education, regulation and enforcement of the appropriate regimes, the operators must be made to conform if it is established that the country cannot do without them.
In reviewing the current law or system under which they operate, professional training, a licensing regime both for the rider and motorcycle/motor tricycles as well an insurance cover to cater for accidents will be most appropriate.
With such a system in place, it will be easier for the Ghana Police Service to enforce the law and also deal with unregistered motorbikes and motor tricycles as well as those involved in criminal activities.
Currently, Ghanaians are divided over the regularisation of these two major means of transport because of their advantages and disadvantages.
The Daily Graphic believes that if we want to have decency on our roads and improve our transportation system, then we have to comprehensively hold the bull by the horn and address the problem now or never.
I don’t recall a happier day in my recent memory in Ghana than last Friday, the Green Ghana day. 
This was the day that we were all urged to go out and plant a tree. 
Since I came back to Ghana 20 years ago and to the realisation that the reality of our country was very different from what was in the Geography books, this was the most successful attempt at doing something to reverse the catastrophic degradation of our lands.
Five million seedlings were made available by the Ministry of Lands and Mineral Resources for us to plant and there was a joyful atmosphere that I hadn’t noticed for a long time.
It might well be that enough Ghanaians had noticed that the one thing that needed our attention more than anything else was the state of the land mass that we call Ghana.
Far more than any potholed road, any dilapidated school, any hospital without beds or any schoolchildren without computers and I daresay, even the worst of any rampaging virus, what we should all get and remain agitated about is the state of our land, the land that had lost its forest cover, the rivers that are drying up, what used to be a wet month of May turning out hot and totally dry.
I haven’t taken a look at the Geography textbooks that are being used in our schools today, but I do know that the characteristics of the land mass of Ghana in the books I used at school certainly do not look like present day Ghana.
We still talk about dense tropical forests, but that is not the reality of our lands. 
We still talk about wild animals but they had been hunted down and their habitats taken over long ago.
The dense tropical forests and wild animals now exist only as part of our language and not part of our reality. 
Even what we thought were forest reserves have been shown to have been hollowed out in the search for gold and other minerals.
Maybe our reality got through to most of us and I am hoping that those who did not take part had very good reasons not to have done so.
To my mind, if anyone or group of people need to be named and shamed in today’s Ghana, it is those who did not bother to go and get a seedling and plant last Friday.
If you see it fit to comment on anything and everything, on things that are going wrong, on unpaved roads, on Free SHS, on the rate of borrowing, on the absence of street lights and even on Supreme Court rulings and you did not plant a tree last Friday, you should be ashamed of yourself, even if you are not named and shamed publicly.
I would suggest though that it is not too late to redeem yourself if you happen to fall in this category.
Planting seedlings and having them grow into the beautiful and majestic  trees that we need to cover our land is a long term undertaking. 
Having planted the seedlings, they need to be tended and nurtured and it takes time and hard work.
Last Friday, it rained in Accra, (and I hear in many other parts of the country) which was enough to make a believer of me, considering how dry it had been.
The seedlings need to be watered regularly if the rains don’t come. Under normal circumstances, a better date couldn’t have been chosen than June 11 for the mass planting, but things aren’t what they used to be with our weather and our land and therefore the seedlings might need more care than they otherwise would have needed.
If you missed planting last Friday, you can still plant one or two and you can certainly help look after those that have been planted.
Cutting down a tree takes so little time, but growing a tree to full maturity to attain its regal and intimidating status takes years.
If we are to restore this land of ours to the ‘dense tropical forest’ described in the Geography books and in the songs of our festivals, then, as President Akufo-Addo said, Greening Ghana will have to become a regular and integral part of our activities.
That presupposes, of course, that we shall stop degrading the lands in the first place, give them some breathing space to rejuvenate and then when we plant, the trees can grow in peace.
I probably also have to declare an interest here. I am a child of the forest, I was born in a forest area, even though the place no longer qualifies as a forest area.
I adore trees, there is nothing that can replace the experience of an afternoon heavy rainfall in a thick forest and the sweet smell that arises from the soil after the rain.
Every child must have the opportunity to experience it and to look up and around trees that are older than their great grandparents.
Another personal declaration of interest is that one of my very favourite people in this world is the Minister for Lands and Mineral Resources, Samuel Abu Jinapor, the Honourable Member of Parliament for Damongo.
Once upon a time when you were appointed a Minister of Mineral Resources, it was a beautiful job, now you are dealing with the degradation of lands, the pollution of rivers and having to burn excavators.
I want Ghana to be returned to a land of thick forests, majestic trees, clean and beautiful rivers and I want it to happen under the tenure of Minister Abu Jinapor.
I couldn’t quite decide what to make of him in that Rangers uniform last Friday but I could certainly see the amount of hard work that had gone into the planning and execution of the project. I am wishing him well and I am hoping that every one of the seedlings that was planted last Friday survives and thrives.
A green Ghana will be a prosperous Ghana.
When it comes to good music, Highlife musician Akwaboah cannot be ignored, but he will easily skip your mind when you are talking about A List musicians in Ghana and that is because he is not in our faces all the time.
However, the musician is not worried that he is not at the top of people’s list. He told Graphic Showbiz that he was not in competition with any musician and not being in the public eye all the time allowed him room to release quality songs.
According to Akwaboah, releasing songs back to back just to help keep an artiste’s name out there did not guarantee sustainability.
“I don’t rush to release songs because I want to take my time and get it right. So many musicians made hits but in just a short time, they were nowhere to be found. I don’t want to be that kind of artiste. I am not under any pressure to release hit songs and anytime I drop something new, Ghanaians just love it.
 “It is always not the best to keep releasing hit after hit. Ghanaians are some way and if they decide not to pay attention to you again, there is nothing you will do to impress them. I prefer to stay this way for the next 15 years than to do hit after hit songs and be forgotten in a year or two,” he told Graphic Showbiz recently.
 The Zimbabwe Republic Police has launched a campaign aimed at preventing violence against women and girls, especially during elections.
Police launched the campaign on Wednesday with the support of human rights organizations, especially women's rights, the Canadian embassy in Zimbabwe, and the National Prosecuting Authority of Zimbabwe.
Speaking at the rally, the police chief, Commissioner-General Godwin Matanga, said the police would not be complacent in matters of violence against women during elections.
He also urged women to report cases of violence or abuse without fear.
The chairperson of the Women's Coalition of Zimbabwe, Sally Ncube, also said she was impressed by the police's commitment to prevent violence against women during elections.
No media source currently available
Some doctors in the country at hospitals such as the West End and Parirenyatwa are refusing to treat people suspected of having coronavirus because they do not have the expertise and expertise.
On Monday, some nurses also protested at Mpilo Hospital, saying they did not have the necessary protection against the disease.
The Ministry of Infectious Diseases in the Ministry of Health, Dr Portia Manangazira, also told Studio7 that a Zimbabwean woman from China had failed to receive treatment in Parirenyatwa.
Parirenyatwa Hospital later investigated the case and ruled that it would not transmit the disease to patients such as coronaviruses, saying such people should be legally referred to Wilkins Hospital and Beatrice Infectious Hospital as a way of trying to prevent other patients and doctors at the hospital from being infected with coronavirus.
The hospital also said it would set up a tent outside the hospital to screen those suspected of having the disease and then refer them to the so-called specialist hospitals.
Harare City Council's chief medical officer, Dr Prosper Chonzi, also said that the West End hospital refused to help a Chinese woman who died thinking she had coronavirus but did not.
When we phoned the hospital they asked us to send questions but we had not yet received a response when we went on air.
Some 3,882 people have died from the disease worldwide.
China has the highest death toll, followed by Italy and Iran. In Africa two people have died in Egypt and Morocco.
But 11 countries in Africa have been affected, namely Algeria, Burkina Faso, South Africa, Senegal, Tunisia, Togo, Egypt, Cameroon, DRC, Nigeria and Morocco. South Africa has 13 people infected with the virus.
Harare City Council is warning residents of Budiriro and Glen Norah communities not to use water from wells or wells they are digging as the water is contaminated.
Due to the frequent lack of tap water, residents in areas such as Glen Norah and Budiriro, are using well water.
But council spokesman Michael Chideme said a study conducted in Budiriro village by Glen Norah found that many mines were contaminated with diarrheal diseases such as typhoid fever.
Mr Chideme said most of the mines being used in the area were shallow, which would lead to the severity of the sewers.
Chideme said the council is providing water to these areas on a regular basis.
The head of the Community Water Alliance, Mr Hardlife Mudzingwa, criticized the council saying the lack of council water was the main reason for residents to mine mines.
Mr Mudzingwa also said some areas do not always get water.
Many residents of Harare do not have regular access to council water which has led to mining in mining villages even though it is not permitted by council regulations.
Residents also say that although the council's water is very dirty, they are also worried about their health.
Things are not going well in public hospitals as the children's nurse is not doing their job.
Patients at Parirenyatwa Hospital told Studio7 that they were shocked by the government-sponsored gathering of people in various parts of the country as patients picked ants by mouth from hospitals.
Shupikai Gachitawa has a child with a broken leg at Parirenyatwa Hospital. Ms Gachitawa says her child is not being given pills or baths and new bandages due to the lack of a nurse.
Ms Gachitawa said the government should listen to the cries of its people and arrange for nurses to return to work.
Innocent Mazise has since seen his patient criticize the government for taking action to expel child nurses who are on strike. Mr Mazise said the government should look into the nurses' grievances and not rule with an ax.
A man who did not want to be named told Studio7 that the wards are no longer clean as there are no bathers or cleaners. He also said that patients are losing their lives due to the lack of any pills and medicines and helpers.
One mother has demanded anonymity because Ms Gumbo has said she is planning to evacuate her patient from the hospital who she says has not been given medication and pills since Monday.
The secretary of the Zimbabwe Association of Doctors for Human Rights, Evans Masitara, said the government's decision to dismiss the nurses was "disgraceful", as they were suffering from the disease.
In a written statement to its members, the Zimbabwe Nurses Association said they were not alarmed by any action being taken by the government. The report also said that the strike was continuing.
Yesterday, Deputy President Constantino Guvheya Chiwenga filed a letter dismissing all striking nurses.
A propaganda video released last month by the Islamic State (IS) group shows the Sahel's appeal to global jihadism when "brothers" in Burkina Faso and Mali were congratulated for pledging their allegiance.
Ansarul Islam, meaning Defenders of Islam, is the home-grown group, founded in 2016 by the radical and popular preacher Ibrahim Malam Dicko, who is said to have fought with Islamist militants in Mali when they took over the north of country in 2012, prompting France's intervention.
Dicko died in April 2017 and his brother Jafar is now leading the group, which has received logistical support from both AQIM and ISGS, according to Human Rights Watch.
Widespread frustration with the lack of jobs and infrastructure has made Burkina Faso a fertile recruiting ground for jihadists - and there are numerous smaller groups, not all of which are affiliated to larger ones or pledge allegiance to Islamist ideology.
According to the Economist, many are fighting for farmland or against government corruption but "adopt the 'jihadist' label because they happen to be Muslim".
But Ncube said members of parliament should trust the government as they improve the banking system and the use of funds in the country for the benefit of the people.
He said there were many steps they were taking that would make things better in the country.
Kwekwe Central MP Masango Matambanadzo also told Ncube that the issue of separating the weight of bonds from the US dollar had made it difficult for many in the country.
He said it was important for the government to see what it could do to increase the salaries of its employees and the private sector in order to keep pace with rising costs.
But Mr Ncube said the government had already adjusted the salaries of its employees and that was why it was providing them with benefits.
They also know that workers in the private sector are also getting higher salaries.
But Mr Matambanadzo said increased wages were useless because commodity prices had risen sharply.
But Mr. Ncube said he would not increase workers' wages in line with the US dollar, saying that although prices were rising, prices of other commodities were falling because they were being bought by fewer people.
He said it was clear that businesses were buying foreign currency on the street but that they should buy the money from banks.
He said banks currently have $ 800 million in foreign currency and this is the amount to be spent by industries and companies.
In a separate development, Chipinge East MP Matthew Mlambo said he was unhappy that the 2000 resettlers had been evicted for no reason.
He said this was happening in many parts of the country.
Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Douglas Karoro, said the evictees were those living in unsuitable places such as cattle grazing or barns.
There are many families who have been evicted from farms given to them by the government many years ago in Chemagora in the Midlands and Mashonaland West and freedom fighters are also complaining about this issue.
The MDC, led by Nelson Chamisa, says it did not attend the meeting convened by President Emmerson Mnangagwa, because Mnangagwa himself is the cause of the unrest in the country.
The MDC says Mr Mnangagwa should not convene a rally to mediate between the two parties if he is a member of the party.
Responding to an invitation to a meeting with the president's office, the MDC's chief of staff, Sessel Zvizvai, said his leader could not attend the meeting, as there were many issues that needed to be resolved.
Mr Zvizvai said the outcome of the presidential election was one of the first issues to be considered.
He also said that the issue of dialogue should be convened by non-political actors so that reconciliation can be done in a way that is fair to all.
Mr Zvizvai also said the talks should be supported by organizations including the Souther African Development Community, the African Union and the United Nations.
The MDC has named 10 candidates for Mnangagwa before the talks with Chamisa.
These include stopping harassment of opponents; ensuring that no one is raped; the release from prison of all political prisoners; non-political interference in the functioning of the judiciary and respect for human rights.
The party's spokesman, Jacob Mafume, told Studio7 that before the reconciliation meeting, Mnangagwa should withdraw troops from the streets and allow other members of the opposition who had fled the country to return home from their homeland.
Three key Islamist militant groups have established a front in northern and eastern Burkina Faso: Ansarul Islam, the Group for the Support of Islam and Muslims (GSIM) and Islamic State in the Greater Sahara (ISGS).
One of the most audacious attacks of recent years - the January 2016 siege on a luxury hotel that killed 30 people in Burkina Faso's capital Ouagadougou - was carried out by al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), which has since merged with two other jihadist groups - Ansar Dine and al-Mourabitoun - to form GSIM
Manyuchi who owns the WBO Silver belt told Studio 7 that Ali's absence has left a gaping hole as he has made the public enjoy the sport of boxing. "A man who had this talent, my father was also a boxer who liked him and I respected him as he was the one who made me strong in this sport." said Manyuchi.
He went on to say, "Muhammad Ali was known for saying - float like a butterfly and sting like a bee," I am known as a busy bee as my name is beehive so I feel happy that my band was also fought by Muhammad Ali because it has a picture of him and is the target category, I'm sorry but I will continue to use the skills I gained through Muhammad Ali, "
International leaders, including former US President Bill Clinton and other foreign leaders, are expected to attend. Many deputies are expected to say goodbye to Ali this Friday. Roads are expected to be very congested.
Ali's family said when the funeral procession was over, everyone would go alone as a family to bury the deceased. 
A spokesman for the family, Bob Gunnell, said Ali's funeral was scheduled years ago based on the deceased's wishes. He is said to have wanted his grievances to be brought to the attention of anyone who wished.
Ali was born Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr. in 1942 but later changed his date after converting from being a Christian to a Muslim. 
He also won a gold medal in the light heavy weight category after defeating Zbigniew Pietrkowski of Poland.
Many American companies are considering the problem of COVID-19 (Coronavirus) as a major factor that has led many workers to work in their own homes, as a way to prevent the spread of the disease.
Other companies with jobs that cannot be employed at home, including food processors, have reportedly suspended some employees as they are unable to go to the offices.
Many states in the United States have banned the gathering of people in places including restaurants and movie theaters, prompting many workers in these service groups to be suspended until things improve.
The US government has also announced plans to set aside $ 1 trillion, which will be used to boost the country's economy by helping companies and individuals affected by the disease.
More than 6,000 people have been infected in the United States and more than 100 have died.
A Zimbabwean national living in the state of Maryland in the United States, Ms. Shingie Mangwiro, who is also working from home due to the disease, says she feels that the idea of ​​living at home is a good idea as it helps reduce social unrest.
Ms. Mangwiro, who sometimes works from home when there are other problems, says she has no problem with utilities as her home appliances are always connected to the workplace.
They also say that the steps being taken by US President Donald Trump and other government agencies are more appropriate in tackling the problem.
But Ms. Mangwiro is also urging those at home to prioritize sanitation, saying that although the disease has not yet entered the country, it is important that people take steps to prevent it.
Homeless people following the floods of the Tokwe Murkosi dam in Masvingo district last year say life is still difficult for them as they are no longer receiving assistance from the government and NGOs.
The announcement was made at the launch of a report outlining the plight of these people.
Speaking at the end of the launch of the Human Rights Watch charter, which conducted a social survey at Nuanetsi Ranch, some of the homeless following the floods said they were unhappy that the government had not yet provided them with shelter a year after the floods.
One of the victims, Kundiso Tevera, claims to have been abducted by the government. He said when they were relocated to Nuanetsi it was too small for all the families affected by the floods to do anything.
Ms. Tevera said one of the problems was the spread of diarrheal diseases which she said were caused by the unsafe water she said they were getting from the boreholes which she said were far from Nuanetsi Ranch when they were given land to live on.
Meanwhile, one of the victims, Wanisai Muzenda, said food was a problem for many displaced people in Tokwe Mukorsi, saying many people were starving due to the suspension of food aid from NGOs.
Ms Muzenda says the person is living with the virus, so the lack of food in the resettlement area has prevented them from taking their pills and says they are already dying.
One of the men, Kenneth Hlavano, a former soldier, said he was saddened by the fact that he had been evacuated three times since the floods for free.
Meanwhile, Dewa Mavhinga, working with the Human Rights Watch evacuation team, urged the Human Rights Commission to investigate the ongoing evictions in Tokwe Murkosi and the ongoing human rights abuses.
We have not been able to hear the government's side of the story as Masvingo provincial minister Kudakwashe Bhasikiti has not responded to phone calls and interior minister Kembo Mohadi has been returning questions to Basikiti.
Mavhinga urged the victims to take their cases to court. 
Mavhinga was speaking at the launch of his organization's report on the evacuation of Tokwe Murkosi following last year's floods called "Homeless, Landless and Destitute - The Plight of Zimbabwe's Tokwe Mukorsi Flood Victims".
A report released by Human Rights Watch is urging the government to rehabilitate more than 20,000 flood victims and reimburse them.
The group is also urging the African Union to ensure that Zimbabwe protects human rights. President Robert Mugabe is the current chair of the AU.
The coach of the national senior and junior team, KalistoPasuwa, has resigned.
Pasuwa resigned yesterday when the Young Warriors returned from South Africa where they were beaten 3-0.
Pasuwa has told the Zimbabwe Football Association that he will not continue to work without pay, which he has not been paid for 10 months.
Pasuwa's manager, Gibson Mahachi, says Pasuwa has resigned and is looking forward to more work to come.
Rumors are circulating in Harare that Pasuwa may return to Dynamos after the sacking of David Mandigora as the club's coach.
Former Warriors kit manager Joshua Khumalo, who was unpaid during his tenure, says Pasuwa has taken a positive step instead of working for free.
Khumalo said he was surprised that Fifa was not paying its employees while receiving funding from Fifa for support.
Football commentator Prosper Muzanharwo said the beating of the Young Warriors in South Africa had nothing to do with their performance but that they were starving because of Zifa's lack of funding.
Sports commentator Howard Musonza said Zifa had failed so badly that they should be fired if they failed to pay their employers.
The Young Warriors will travel to the Africa Games in Congo Brazaville in September with a new coach, Nation Dube, who was Pasuwa's successor.
The Warriors will also have a new coach when they play Guinea in the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations in early September.
Church members are gathering in Harare to pray for a solution to the crisis, with President Emmerson Mnangagwa calling for unity among political parties.
The internet has been shut off and a curfew imposed in Eswatini, the southern African kingdom formerly known as Swaziland.
Security forces are on high alert as protesters demanding political reforms have vowed to step up their demonstrations.
A journalist told the BBC that overnight there were violent confrontations in the city of Manzini and that the country’s borders and airport remain closed.
Days of protests have left several people in hospital, businesses in the capital, Mbabane, remain closed after some, including those linked to the king, were destroyed.
Sporadic demonstrations over poor wages and political repression have flared up over the years in Eswatini - this most recent one was sparked by the death of law student.
While the government says his death was the result of a car accident, protesters say he was murdered by police.
The protests have highlighted long-running discontent in one of the world’s last remaining absolute monarchies.
King Mswati III, who came to the throne 35 years ago, rules by decree.
His critics accuse the 53-year-old monarch, and his 15 wives, of leading a lavish lifestyle and treating opponents harshly.
A court in Morocco is reported to have sentenced an Italian-Moroccan woman to three and a half years in prison for insulting Islam after she shared a post on Facebook of a satirical text imitating Quranic verse.
The father of the 23-year-old woman says that she was arrested at the airport in the capital, Rabat, on her return from France where she was studying.
A religious association in Marrakesh instigated the case against her by making a complaint to the authorities.
Ghana’s President Nana Akufo-Addo has ordered a public inquiry into the shooting dead of two protesters.
Four others were injured during clashes with the security forces in the central town of Ejura on Tuesday.
The disturbances began after popular government critic Ibrahim Mohammed, also known as “Macho Kaaka”, was beaten up over the weekend in Ejura and subsequently died.
Demonstrators blocked the main road after his burial on Tuesday, the police said.
Security personnel deployed to restore calm were threatened with firearms, machetes and stones, the police statement adds.
The protesters were killed when security personnel opened fire.
A top Liberian drug enforcement officer has apologised for making allegations that an MP was caught transporting drugs.
The officer told a drug awareness forum about her encounter with an MP who, she said, was seen carrying marijuana, cocaine and heroin in his official vehicle.
She declined to name the MP at the time.
But the allegation was published widely in local dailies and on social media, prompting the 73-member parliament to summon the officer to disclose the name of the MP in question.
When she appeared before the house, the officer admitted making the allegation but refused to point out the MP and instead asked for forgiveness.
The hearing was adjourned as the officer was rushed to hospital after suddenly falling ill.
Substance abuse is a huge challenge in post-war Liberia, where the under-funded Drug Enforcement Agency struggles to tackle the drug trade.
Ethiopia’s Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed has downplayed Monday’s capture by rebels of the Tigrayan regional capital, Mekelle.
"A lot of people were shocked… when we started withdrawing from Mekelle. But, by the time we exited, there was nothing special about it,” he said.
“It had lost its centre of gravity in the current context."
But the rebels insist the federal forces had been beaten and were forced to leave.
Earlier, Deputy Foreign Minister Redwan Hussein said the military could retake Mekelle in three weeks if necessary.
The government had other economic priorities to deal with, he said.
More than $2.2bn (£1.6bn) had been spent by the government over the past eight months in Tigray in efforts to provide aid, he added.
Fighting has been going on since November, leaving thousands of people dead and destabilising the region.
The UN has appealed for urgent access to vulnerable people in Tigray, many of whom face starvation.
The roots of this crisis can be traced to Ethiopia's system of government.
Since 1994, Ethiopia has had a federal system in which different ethnic groups control the affairs of 10 regions.
Remember that powerful party from Tigray? Well, this party - the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF) - was influential in setting up this system.
It was the leader of a four-party coalition that governed Ethiopia from 1991, when a military regime was ousted from power.
Under the coalition, Ethiopia became more prosperous and stable, but concerns were routinely raised about human rights and the level of democracy.
Eventually, discontent morphed into protest, leading to a government reshuffle that saw Mr Abiy appointed prime minister.
Mr Abiy liberalised politics, set up a new party (the Prosperity Party), and removed key Tigrayan government leaders accused of corruption and repression.
Meanwhile, Mr Abiy ended a long-standing territorial dispute with neighbouring Eritrea, earning him a Nobel Peace Prize in 2019.
These moves won Mr Abiy popular acclaim, but caused unease among critics in Tigray.
Tigray's leaders saw Mr Abiy's reforms as an attempt to centralise power and destroy Ethiopia's federal system.
The feud came to a head in September, when Tigray defied the central government to hold its own regional election.
The central government, which had postponed national elections because of coronavirus, said it was illegal.
The rift grew when the central government suspended funding for Tigray and cut ties with it in October. 
At the time, Tigray's administration said this amounted to a "declaration of war".
Tensions increased, and the eventual catalyst was when Tigrayan forces were accused of attacking army bases to steal weapons.
Mr Abiy said Tigray had crossed a "red line".
"The federal government is therefore forced into a military confrontation," he said.
Algerian Finance Minister Ayman Benabderrahmane has been appointed as the new prime minister following parliamentary elections earlier this month that were marred by a low turnout
Mr Benabderrahmane, who was also once the central bank governor, now has to try to form a government to tackle the North African nation’s economic crisis.
Reforms promised by President Abdelmadjid Tebboune when he took office 18 months ago have been hampered by the sharp drop in oil and gas revenues and the coronavirus pandemic.
The main Islamist party, the MSP - which came third in the election - has said it will not participate in the new government.
The new prime minister will also have to respond to the demands of an influential popular protest movement - known as the Hirak - calling for radical political change.
It brought to an end the long-time rule of former President Abdelaziz Bouteflika in 2019.
The Hirak called for a boycott of the recent elections and continues to hold weekly demonstrations in various parts of the country.
Dozens of its members have been prosecuted and jailed, according to human rights groups.
Namibia’s President Hage Geingob has said his country is facing a “dark and sombre moment” as coronavirus deaths and cases rapidly increase.
Addressing the nation, he said that 513 Namibians had died in the last 15 days as a result of the virus and cases have trebled since the beginning of June.
With a population of just 2.5 million this represents one of the worst death rates on the continent.
Introducing new restrictions, including stopping movement between the country’s regions, Mr Geingob said that things were likely to continue to get worse until mid-August at the earliest.
Speaking after the president, Health Minister Kalumbi Shangula said the country was “literally in an existential struggle… we are in a fight for our very lives”.
He described a stretched health service and said that the country’s mortuaries “have reached maximum capacity”.
The minister announced that more intensive care beds were being prepared and steps had been taken to boost the country’s purified oxygen supply.
Rounding off his message, President Geingob urged people to co-operate with the new measures and insisted the nation would overcome the crisis.
A man extradited to Rwanda from the Netherlands has been sentenced to 25 years in prison for genocide crimes committed when he was 19.
During Jean-Claude Iyamuremye’s five-year trial, he denied involvement in the 1994 genocide when around 800,000 ethnic Tutsis and moderate Hutus were killed in 100 days by Hutu extremists.
The high court judge said Iyamuremye had been a member of a youth militia that hunted and killed members of the Tutsi community in his neighbourhood in the capital, Kigali.
The 45-year-old defended himself, saying his own mother was a Tutsi.
The judge said he could have sentenced Iyamuremye to life, but had decided not to as he was “so young” when the crimes were committed and he had also saved some Tutsi families.
Iyamuremye was arrested in 2013 in the Netherlands, where he had worked as a driver for staff at the Israeli and Finnish embassies.
He was sent back to Rwanda by the Dutch authorities in 2016.
Two suspected jihadists have been arrested over the Solhan attack in the north-eastern region of Burkina Faso on 4 June in which more than 130 people were killed.
The prosecutor announced the arrest of two suspects, aged 28, in a statement.
Both claim to belong to the Mouhadine group, meaning "People in Solidarity", which is thought to be affiliated to al-Qaeda.
It is divided into several sub-groups based in Burkina Faso and has led incursions into Niger and Benin.
The prosecutor said the the group was responsible for previous attacks in Solhan, Sebba, Boundoré and Koholoko on the Niger border.
The prosecutor has requested the opening of a judicial investigation into the two suspects on a number of terrorism-related charges.
The attack on the village of Solhan, which took place at an artisanal mining site, is considered to be the deadliest attack in Burkina Faso since April 2015.
It has caused discontent and criticism about the ability of the defence and security forces to contain jihadist violence in the country.
On Sunday evening, in a radio and television message, President Roch Marc Christian Kaboré promised to strengthen the operational capacity of troops on the ground.
About 300 British troops have arrived in the troubled West African state of Mali at a time when the epicentre of the Islamic State group (IS) appears to have moved from the Middle East to Africa.
In a three-year mission named Operation Newcombe they are joining a force of around 15,000 UN multinational troops, spearheaded by the French, in efforts to help stabilise a part of the continent known as the Sahel.
Mali is one of several Sahel nations currently fighting jihadist insurgencies and the violence is getting worse.
According to the Global Terrorism Index published on 25 November, the "centre of gravity" for the Islamic State group IS has moved away from the Middle East to Africa and to some extent South Asia, with total deaths by IS in sub-Saharan Africa up by 67% over last year.
"The expansion of ISIS affiliates into sub-Saharan Africa led to a surge in terrorism in many countries in the region," reports the Global Terrorism Index.
"Seven of the 10 countries with the largest increase in terrorism were in sub-Saharan Africa: Burkina Faso, Mozambique, DRC, Mali, Niger, Cameroon and Ethiopia".
The report points out that in 2019 "sub-Saharan Africa recorded the largest number of ISIS-related terrorism deaths at 982, or 41 per cent of the total".
Jihadists have long been active in Africa.
In modern times the late al-Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden made Sudan his base before moving back to Afghanistan in 1996.
Nigeria's Boko Haram movement, infamous for kidnapping hundreds of schoolgirls at Chibok in 2014, carried out major attacks after declaring a jihad in 2010.
But today, as competition increase between rival jihadist groups, the threat of terrorism in the region is increasing.
The US State Department's coordinator for counter-terrorism, ambassador Nathan Sales, says both IS and al-Qaeda have shifted much of their operations away from their heartland in Syria and Iraq to their affiliates in West and East Africa, as well as Afghanistan.
"Africa", he says, "is a key front in the next stage in the fight against terrorism".
But it is not just a case of governments versus insurgents, there is also a deadly rivalry taking place between supporters of al-Qaeda and IS. This rivalry is becoming so intense that French expert on jihad Olivier Guitta from GlobalStrat Risk Consultancy even predicts:
"Africa is going to be the battleground of jihad for the next 20 years and it's going to replace the Middle East".
Al-Qaeda and IS share a common loathing for secular, Western-supported rulers whom they call "apostates".
But they also have major differences in their approach.
IS has a predilection for extreme, graphic, violence - as demonstrated by its gruesome beheading videos.
While this certainly attracts sociopaths and convicted criminals to its ranks, it also tends to repel the vast majority of Muslims.
Al-Qaeda and its affiliates often seek to win over the loyalty of local populations who have no confidence in their governments or their police, exploiting regional and ethnic grievances.
Several of the world's poorest nations border the Sahara desert.
This region is known as "the Sahel", an Arabic word literally meaning "the coast".
Mali, Chad, Niger, Burkina Faso and Mauritania make up the Sahel countries and all have suffered attacks from insurgents.
Parts of the region are afflicted variously with drought, poverty, unemployment, corruption and in some cases large tracts of ungoverned space.
"West Africa", says ambassador Sales, "is a perfect storm, with nation states that don't control their territories, commit abuses by their forces, and have porous borders".
The dominant jihadist group in this region is the al-Qaeda affiliate Jama'at Nusrat Al-Islam wa'l-Muslimin (JNIM).
The group is in direct competition with the IS affiliate Islamic State in the Greater Sahara (ISGS) and this year has seen a number of low-level battles between them.
Nigeria has suffered some of the worst jihadist attacks in the region, with the government struggling to control the north-east of the country where the Boko Haram movement evolved.
According to the Global Terrorism Index, Boko Haram has been responsible for over "37,500 combat-related deaths and over 19,000 deaths from terrorism since 2011, mainly in Nigeria" but also neighbouring countries.
In 2015, one faction of Boko Haram pledged allegiance to IS, becoming "Islamic State West Africa Province" (Iswap), crossing borders with ease and capturing a multinational base on the shores of Lake Chad in 2018.
IS has since been heavily promoting this African affiliate.
Attacks are still being carried in Boko Haram's name. A video posted by the group on 1 December claimed responsibility for massacring dozens of farmers in Borno state who it claimed had collaborated with government forces.
Western nations have offered only limited military and intelligence assistance to Nigeria. Western diplomats say they are constrained by the corruption and poor human rights record of the Nigerian military.
These failings have been a major contributor towards mistrust of the government and towards recruitment for Boko Haram and other jihadist groups in the region.
"The corruption angle in Nigeria" says Olivier Guitta, "is ruining everything".
Al-Qaeda's insurgency in North Africa started off in Algeria.
So it is no surprise that the newly appointed leader of al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) is an Algerian.
The white-bearded 51-year-old Abu Obaida Al-Annabi replaces his predecessor, Abdelmalik Droukdel, who was killed by French troops in Mali in June.
In a microcosm of the wider al-Qaeda-IS rivalry, his appointment has been cheered by al-Qaeda's supporters while rival IS supporters have cast doubt on his jihadist credentials.
Tunisia, the smallest country in the region, produced one of the highest numbers of volunteers - 15-20,000 - who travelled to Syria to join IS during its peak years of 2013-2018.
With high unemployment and a proximity to Libya, Tunisia continues to face an ongoing threat from terrorism.
Libya has been in a state of intermittent chaos ever since the Arab Spring revolt of 2011 and the overthrow of the despotic regime of Muammar Gaddafi.
The end of his regime not only released thousands of tonnes of weapons and explosives from government armouries, much of it making its way across the southern border into the Sahel countries, it also allowed IS jihadists to gain a foothold in the east of Libya.
Somalia's al-Shabab group - Arabic for "the young men" - has been one of the most persistent and dangerous jihadist movements on the entire continent.
"Al-Shabab" says Nathan Sales, "sees itself as al-Qaeda's most successful group"
It has survived concerted multinational military campaigns to eradicate it yet it has been able to strike across its borders in Kenya and Uganda as well as detonating massive bombs in the Somali capital, Mogadishu.
US Special Operations raids and drone strikes, launched from neighbouring Djibouti, frequently kill al-Shabab leaders and yet the group has been able to keep regenerating itself.
It has also succeeded in beating back a challenge from the local IS affiliate which is now largely confined to the north-east tip of the Horn of Africa.
The foothold gained by IS in the northern district of Cabo Delgado under the banner of "Islamic State Central Africa Province" (ISCAP), could well be an example of a full-blown insurgency arranged almost entirely over the internet.
Counter-terrorism officials believe that the jihadists operating in this gas-rich part of Mozambique have been recruited online with some input from across the border in Tanzania but largely without the physical presence of recruiters sent from the IS heartlands of Syria and Iraq.
There are conflicting reports as to the veracity of some of the recent atrocities carried out in the name of IS in Cabo Delgado, such as the alleged massacre of around 50 villagers on a football field.
But IS does appear to be getting the upper hand against the government.
"IS" says Olivier Guitta, "is moving around within Mozambique unhampered by other forces".
This is a hugely contentious issue.
In June 2013 all seven leaders at the G7 summit at Loch Erne signed up to an agreement not to pay ransoms to proscribed terrorist organisations.
Seven years on and the reality remains that European citizens tend to be eventually released for undisclosed amounts while British and American hostages are the most likely to get executed.
Several French citizens have been released from jihadist captivity in the Sahel, most recently in exchange for the release of a large number of dangerous jihadist prisoners in Mali.
Analysts have put the total amount paid to jihadist kidnappers in North and West Africa over the years at more than €100m ($120m; £90m).
This ransom money is then used by the jihadists to buy more weapons, more explosives, better vehicles, night vision goggles, communications equipment as well as funding their recruitment efforts and providing bribes to corrupt officials.
Recent attacks on churches in northern Burkina Faso are likely to be the work of jihadists whose activities are growing in the region despite a military operation to contain Islamist militancy.
The country's foreign minister says tackling terrorism has become a fight "for the very survival" of the Sahel region, which incorporates Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, Mauritania and Niger.
The militants have forced 100,000 in Burkina Faso alone to flee their homes in recent months.
In the last month there have been at least five attacks targeting Christians, several taking place during church services - though no group has said it was behind these assaults, analysts say they have all the jihadists' hallmarks.
It shows a shift in tactics, according to Djallil Lounnas, an expert on militancy in the Sahara at Morocco's Al Akhawayn University.
"Usually religious minorities have not been touched, especially Christian minorities, since jihadist violence broke out in the area," he says.
This is particularly troubling given Burkina Faso's long history of religious tolerance, but it forms part of a jihadist strategy to sow religious and inter-communal conflict.
"It's an old guerrilla, terrorist tactic to increase their ranks by fuelling mass violence," says Louis Audet-Gosselin of the Canadian Network for Research on Terrorism.
Conflict and instability also create the conditions that allow jihadists to install bases and control territory.
"The security situation in the country is degrading almost daily," says Mr Audet-Gosselin. "Jihadist groups are gaining ground bit by bit, forcing state officials and state sovereignty out of several rural areas and increasingly some cities."
Those targeted are often associated with the state - village counsellors, mayors, police officers, civil servants and civilians accused of collaborating with military.
Schools and teachers are soft targets for Islamists militants, who oppose secular education. More than 1,000 schools in the north have been forced to close recently, affecting more than 150,000 children.
Human Rights Watch has also reported numerous abuses by government forces during counter-terrorism operations, including summary executions of Fulanis, a largely Muslim ethnic group of semi-nomadic herders.
"The army is pretty brutal and tends to single out the Fulani community as a whole, as guilty by association to jihadist groups... which in turn leads to increasing militancy from Fulani youth," says Mr Audet-Gosselin.
A lack of services has created a vacuum that militant groups have been able to exploit by sometimes stepping in to deliver them, but mostly their presence means chaos and violence.
A resident in the northern town of Djibo told the BBC: "Many homes have been deserted. Economic activity has ground to a halt. 
We no longer have any nightlife. 
Westerners who are high-value targets have left."
Witnesses say gunmen also sporadically go on the rampage, looting shops and mugging people.
"Burkina Faso is a barrier between the Sahel and the coastal countries in the fight against terrorism. 
If that is broken down, its neighbours will be affected," warns Burkina Faso's Foreign Minister Alpha Barry.
In April when jihadist leader Oumarou Diallo, who operated in eastern Burkina Faso, was arrested along with some 20 followers, security sources told the BBC they had found evidence he was in contact with people in Togo, Benin and Ghana.
The most high-profile example that this insecurity is already spilling over is the abduction of French tourists from a national park in northern Benin in May.
When French special forces officers secured their release, the kidnappers had already moved them to northern Burkina Faso - and it is believed they were planning to hand them over to Mali-based militants.
French Armed Forces Minister Florence Parly said at the time that there were two main militant groups operating near where the French tourists were taken - one linked to al-Qaeda and the other to IS.
Le Monde newspaper has also reported an unnamed source as saying armed groups have established themselves in northern Togo and Benin in "hard-to-reach forest areas, where traffickers and bandits in the region are rampant".
Correspondents say many recruits join up, not out of ideology, but simply because they see it as the only alternative to destitution.
But the concern for the government is the belief by intelligence officials that some ex-soldiers of the presidential elite regiment, the RSP, have been lending Ansarul Islam a hand.
The RSP was a unit set up by former President Blaise Compaoré for his personal security, however when he was ousted in an uprising in 2014, it suddenly felt its existence threatened.
In a bid for survival, members staged a short-lived coup against the transitional government before being forced to hand over power by neighbouring countries.
Fleeing justice afterwards, many RSP members, including an officer called Boubacar Sawadogo, took to a clandestine life.
Officials were quoted by a Malian newspaper in 2017 as saying that they had intercepted a communication between Mr Sawadogo and Ansarul Islam's leader.
The intercept confirmed what the government had long suspected - that former RSP members were taking part in attacks by jihadists both in Mali and Burkina Faso.
A state of emergency was declared in several regions in December, granting security forces extra powers to search homes and restrict freedom of movement.
According to the UN, more than a fifth of the country's national budget is spent on defence and security.
But the former French colony, a poor country even by West African standards, is struggling and the security forces remain ill-equipped to tackle the scale of the jihadist threat.
It is part of a five-national regional force, the G5 Sahel, created in September 2017 to take on the militants.
Yet most of the funds pledged by partners and donors - including the European Union - still have not been handed over, says the BBC's Simon Gongo in Burkina Faso.
"Reconstruction of an effective security apparatus with a competent intelligence branch and elite commandos will take time, as will improving the G5's operational readiness," says International Crisis Group in its latest report on Burkina Faso.
France also has some 4,500 troops in the Sahel region in an ongoing counter-terror mission codenamed Operation Barkhane.
Fuel prices at the pumps have been reduced by 8 pesewas per litre effective Wednesday, May 5, 2021.
This means that the recent 17 pesewas per litre increase announced by the National Petroleum Authority (NPA) has been reduced to 9 pesewas per litre.
It takes effect from Wednesday, May 5, 2021.
This was made known in a communique issued on Tuesday, May 4, 2021 by the stakeholders in the fuel sector at a meeting held at the Ministry of Energy between the Minister of Energy, Dr Matthew Opoku Prempeh and the National Petroleum Authority (NPA), the Association of Oil Marketing Companies (AOMCs), Bulk Oil Storage and Transportation Co Ltd (BOST), the Chamber of Petroleum Consumers (COPEC) and the Institute for Energy Policies and Research (INSTEPR).
"The 17 pesewas per litre increase in fuel margins previously announced by the NPA has been reduced to 9 pesewas per litre effective tomorrow Wednesday 5th May 2021," the communique said.
The communique was signed by the Minister of Energy, NPA, BOST, AOMCs. COPEC and INSTEPR.
The development followed a request by the Minister of Energy for a round table discussion to revise certain components on the price build up.
In justifying the fuel price increment, the Public Relations Officer of the National Petroleum Authority (NPA), Yaro Kasambata has explained that the level of fuel consumption in the country is a contributor to the cause of the fuel price hike.
According to him, the country’s fuel consumption level over the last 10 years indicates that Ghana is growing with a lot of cars on the road and is full of economic activities to match the demand of fuel to do things in the country.
Speaking on Okay Fm’s "Ade Akye Abia" Morning Show, Yaro Kasambata revealed that with petrol only, Ghanaians consume 120 million litres every month while diesel consumption is 160 million litres monthly.
He maintained that with these amounts of fuel consumption monthly, it results in even 1 Pesewa increase in the fuel price accumulating huge sums of money; emphasizing that “the high level of fuel consumption is making it difficult to maintain fuel price due to how we have grown. As we are today, we were not the same in 10 years ago”.
He however outlined three factors as the main cause of the fuel price increases, naming one cause to be the price of crude oil and the price of the world market refined petrol. 
He added that between mid Februarys to May 17, prices of crude oil and refined product on the world market have gone up.
He mentioned that crude oil only went up by 34 percent, petrol by 37 percent, diesel went up by 36 percent and with LPG, it went up by 43 percent; slating that with these increases, Ghana cannot maintain or reduce fuel prices.
With the second cause of fuel price increase, Yaro Kasambata blames it on the depreciation of the cedi against the dollar, indicating that between mid Februarys and now, the cedi has depreciated against the dollar as this has affected the price of fuel.
He mentioned thirdly that the policy of full cost recovery to make the price of crude oil in the world market to match the price of Ghana is another to factor which has contributed to the fuel price increases.
He bemoaned that as the NPA maintained the fuel price between the mid February to May 17, there has been a debt of Gh¢146 million and so without these increases in fuel price the authority cannot get letters of credit to buy fuel and as such there will be a shortage in the country.
Commenting on the current price of crude oil in the world market, Yaro Kasambata revealed it is $64.32 dollars per barrel. 
He however failed to comment on whether the current price of crude in comparison with Kufuor’s era where it was sold for $147 per barrel merit the current fuel price with the excuse that he is not a politician.
The Government has commiserated with the families of the three persons who perished in the Monday accident at Onyinanumfo in the Ahafo-Ano South-West District of the Ashanti Region.
“We are deeply saddened by what has befallen this community, and would continue to stand solidly behind all those affected in the calamity,” Mr. Eric Nana Agyemang-Prempeh, Director-General of the National Disaster Management Organization (NADMO), told the media.
This was when he visited the affected community with other NADMO officials to assess the extent of damage caused to the farming community, following the accident on May 24.
The three, including a two-year-old boy, perished when a speeding fuel tanker, reportedly carrying diesel from Kumasi, caught fire after hitting a parked commercial bus on reaching a sharp curve in that community.
The fuel was to be discharged at Tepa.
Five passengers on the bus who got injured were sent to the hospital for treatment, while the bodies of the deceased have also been deposited at the morgue for autopsy.
More than 100 persons, who lost their homes in the inferno, are putting up in make-shift structures.
Mr. Agyemang-Prempeh, therefore, presented some relief items to the victims.
They include 20 packets of roofing sheets, 50 mattresses,100 pieces of blankets, mosquito nets and insecticide.
He also presented 20 bags of cooking oil, soap and quantities of second-hand clothing to them.
The NADMO Director-General described the incident as unfortunate and prayed for the souls of the departed.
Fuel prices have gone up by an average of 19.4% this year, driven by depreciation of the cedi and rising prices of crude oil, as well as prices of finished petroleum products on the world market.
Last year ended with a litre of petrol selling at an average price of GH¢3.79 while the average price of diesel was GH¢3.75
The average price of crude oil in 2016 was $55 per barrel.
Speaking to The Finder, the Principal Research Analyst of the Institute for Energy Security (IES), Richmond Rockson, said that for 2017, crude oil traded for $63 per barrel as of December, which is one of the highest since June 2015.
19.4% fuel price increase in 2017
He explained that the current average price of a litre of petrol and diesel is GH¢4.49, and this represents an average increase of 19.4% compared to the 2016 figures.
Gallon of fuel costs GH¢20.20 
According to him, currently, a gallon of petrol and diesel costs GH¢20.20, compared to GH¢17.05 per a gallon in 2016. 
He noted that the increases were mainly fuelled by exchange rate depreciation, prices of finished products, and rising crude oil prices.
Breakdown of pricing mechanism
Rockson explained that in calculating fuel prices, crude oil constitutes 20% of the pricing mechanism, exchange rate makes up 30% of pricing, and the finished product constitutes 50% of the pricing.
The Principal Research Analyst of IES noted that the cedi ended 2016 at GH¢4 to $1, but 15% depreciation in 2017 has moved the exchange rate to GH¢4.62 to $1.
7 Pesewas PSRL reduction on diesel and LPG
Government recently reduced the Price Stabilisation and Recovery Levy (PSRL) on diesel by seven pesewas per litre from the current 10 pesewas to three pesewas. 
In the same vein, the PSRL on LPG was reduced by seven pesewas per kilogramme from 10 pesewas to three pesewas.
2.5% drop in Special Petroleum Levy in 2017
The government, in its 2017 budget, reduced the Special Petroleum Tax from 17.5% to 15%, and went ahead to scrap the excise duty on petroleum products.
Without these interventions, Ghanaians would have been paying more for fuel than the current fuel prices.
Data from IES in the 24 pricing windows in 2017 has been analysed. 
January pricing window - 7.27%
In January, the prices of petroleum products went up by 7.27%, comprising 4.75% increase in the first pricing window, and 2.52% increase in the second pricing window.
February - 3% increase
Prices remained stable in the first pricing window in February while the second pricing window witnessed a 3% increase.
March - 6% increase
In March, the first pricing window saw a marginal increase of between 1.18 and 2.6% while increases ranging from 2.69% to 4.56% were effected in the second pricing window.
April - 1.5% drop in prices 
In April, the prices of petroleum products decreased by 1.5% in the first window while there was no price change in the second window. 
May - 1.7% increase 
For the month of May, prices went up marginally by 1.7%, made up of 1.03% drop in the first pricing window and 2% increase in the second pricing window.
June - 3.23% increase 
June recorded 3.23% increase in prices as prices went up by 4% in the first window and 0.77% drop in prices in the second window.
July - 1.31% drop 
The first pricing window in July recorded 1.31% drop in prices, but there were no price changes in the second window.
August - 6.07% increase 
The two pricing windows in August cumulatively recorded 6.07% increase, comprising 4.48% increase in first window and 3.55% rise in the second window.
September - 9.57% increase 
Cumulatively, September witnessed 9.57% increase in prices, with first window recording 3% increase and 6.57% increase in second window.
October - no increase 
The figures for the first pricing window are 1% drop in petrol and 1.51% increase in diesel while the second window recorded 1.02% drop in prices.
November - 5.9% drop 
Prices were stable in the first window, but it went up by 5.9% in the second window.
December - No price change 
The 7% reduction in the PSRL stabilised prices for December.
he Presbyterian Church of Ghana (PCG) will hold its 18th General Assembly at the Christ Congregation at Akropong Akuapem in the Eastern Region from August 17th to 23rd, 2018 under the theme: ‘Go and Make Disciples of All Nations”(Mathew 28:19).
The General Assembly, which is the highest decision making body of the PCG, is expected to attract about 250 Commissioners, and Corresponding Members from all the 21  Presbyteries, both home and abroad.
Major highlights of the Assembly would include the Official Opening Ceremony which the Minister for Chieftaincy and Religious Affairs, Hon. Kofi Dzamesi is expected be the Special Guest of Honour, Divine Service, Service to Commemorate the Faithful Departed and Plenary Sessions from Monday 20th August 2017.
The Assembly will also take decisions that will guide the activities of the Church in the coming years. 
Ministers retiring from the active service of the Church would also be presented to General Assembly.
The General Assembly, will review activities of the Church in the previous year, plan for the ensuing year, and also serve as a platform for fellowship, interactions and networking among Commissioners and Corresponding Members.
The Official Opening Ceremony will be performed by the Acting Moderator of the General Assembly Rev Dr Victor Okoe Abbey.
One significant thing about this year’s General Assembly is that it marks one hundred years of Synod/ General Assembly System of the Church’s governance.
It was in 1918 at Akropong Akuapem where the first Synod of the then Presbyterian Church of Gold Coast now Presbyterian Church of Ghana was held and the first Moderator and the Clerk were also appointed in the person of the late Very Revs. Peter Hall and Nicholas Timothy Clerk respectively.
We appeal to all Presbyterians and the Christian community both home and abroad to pray for successful General Assembly.
The Presbyterian Church of Ghana (PCG) will hold its 20th General Assembly at the Grace Congregation, Akropong Akuapem in the Eastern Region on 4th November 2020 under the theme: “Let Christ Be Formed in You: Equipping the Saints for Ministry in Christ” (Ephesians 4:12).
The Assembly will be chaired by the Moderator of the General Assembly of the PCG, The Rt. Rev. Prof. Joseph Obiri Yeboah Mante.
The General Assembly, which is the highest decision making body of the PCG, is expected to attract about 250 Commissioners, and Corresponding Members from all the 21 Presbyteries of the Church, both home and abroad. (Some Commissioners and Corresponding Members will join virtually).
The one-day General Assembly became necessary following the Church’s inability to hold it in August 2020 as planned due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 Pandemic, and the subsequent restrictions imposed on all public gatherings, including church activities.
Major highlights of the Assembly would include Opening Devotion, Opening Ceremony by the Moderator of the General Assembly of the PCG, Rt. Rev. Prof. Joseph Obiri Yeboah Mante which will include his address to the Assembly, report by the Clerk of General Assembly, Rev. Dr. Godwin Nii Noi Odonkor, presentation of the Church’s 2021 budget, and Prayer Sessions.
The Senior Minister, Hon. Yaw Osafo Maafo is expected to represent the President of the Repuiblic of Ghana, His Excellency Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo as Special Guest of Honour.
The General Assembly will review activities of the Church in the previous year, plan for the ensuing year, and serve as a platform for fellowship, interactions and networking among Commissioners and Corresponding Members.
The 20th General Assembly will also take decisions that will guide the activities of the Church in subsequent years.
Members of the PCG and the entire Christian Community are kindly urged to pray for the success of the 20th General Assembly 2020.
The Methodist Church Ghana has elected Rt. Rev. Dr Paul Boafo, the administrative Bishop of the church as its new Presiding Bishop.
He takes over from The Most Rev. Titus Kofi Awotwi Pratt who is due for superannuation [retirement] next month.
Dr. Boafo, who is also the immediate past Protestant Chaplain of the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology (KNUST), was elected at the 10th Biennial and 48th Delegates Conference of the Methodist Church at Sekondi in the Western Region.
He polled a total of 223 votes as against his closet contender, Very Rev. Asamoah Gyedu who gathered 104 votes.
All other nominees had 26 votes combined.
Whilst the Church congratulates Dr. Boafo on his election, it said the choice of the Presiding Bishop was made “after hours of prayers and waiting.”
He is expected to assume office on October 1, 2018 after an induction service.
The Presiding Bishop position
The Presiding Bishop is the Head of The Methodist Church Ghana and exercises pastoral and spiritual oversight over the whole Church.
The Church’s Constitution and Standing Orders stipulate that, one needs to have served a minimum of twenty (20) continuous years after ordination as a Minister of the Church to qualify to be elected for the top post of the Church.
A candidate who obtains more than fifty percent of valid votes by delegates is duly elected to the position of a Presiding Bishop, pending induction to begin a six (6) year non-renewable term of office.
Profile of the new Presiding Bishop
Dr. Boafo was born at Asankrangwa in the Western Region of Ghana to a Roman Catholic couple Opanin Paul Kwaw Boafo of blessed memory and Madam Agatha Ama Asamoah Boafo.
He started school at the Asankrangwa Roman Catholic Primary in 1963.
Paul was enrolled in the Wa Experimental Primary School and later moved to other schools in Mangu, Kenyasi No 2, Sefwi Wiawso, and Sefwi Bekwai according to the itinerant ministry of his uncle.
It was from the Sefwi Bekwai Methodist Middle School that Paul entered the Wenchi Methodist Secondary School from 1972 – 1977 for his General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level Examination. 
He then proceeded to Wesley College, Kumasi, to train as a teacher from 1978 to 1981.
He was ordained on Sunday 27th August 1989 at the Wesley Cathedral, Sunyani.
Paul was the foundation Superintendent Minister of the New Achimota Circuit in the Accra Diocese (1999-2001) and also served as Superintendent Minister of the Accra North Circuit, Adabraka (2001-2005).
KNUST Chaplaincy and other Ministries
It was from the Accra North Circuit that Paul was nominated by the Methodist Church Ghana to serve as the president Chaplain of KNUST.
In addition to his primary work as chaplain, he has also been teaching at the Religious Studies Department of the University.
Paul has served either as chairman, secretary or member of a number of committees in the Church and at the KNUST.
These include: the University Syllabus Review Committee of the Methodist University College Ghana; Health Services Management Board of KNUST; Queen Elizabeth II Hall Council – KNUST; Committee of University Ecumenical Chaplaincy Board KNUST Local Council of Churches, Kumasi.
The Minister for Works and Housing, Francis Asenso-Boakye, says the Takoradi Market Circle drainage system reconstruction work, has been captured in the Ministry’s 2021 flood control program.
Francis Asenso-Boakye, while on a two-day tour of the Western Region, gave the assurance after inspecting the main drainage system at Essikafoambatem Number Two, which has been found to be the cause of regular flooding within the Takoradi Market Circle area.
“The Western Regional Minister has been talking to me about the flooding situation around the Takoradi Market Circle area. 
So I took advantage of my tour of the region to come and have a first-hand look at the major problem here. Prior to this, officials of the Hydrological Service Department came here to assess the situation and I can say that it is part of the Ministry’s 2021 Flood Control Program which we are currently in talks with the Finance Ministry for the needed funds to come and start fixing the problem here. 
We are very hopeful that we will get the resources from the Finance Ministry and once we are able to solve the problem at this side of the drainage channel, the issue of flooding around the market would be reduced“, he said.
The Western Regional Minister, Kwabena Okyere Darko Mensah, who toured the sewage system with the Works and Housing Minister, said the fixing of the sewage system would bring a lot of relief to residents of Takoradi
The Minister for Works and Housing also visited two sea defense projects at Aboadze and Amanfokuma, and expressed satisfaction with the quality of work executed by the contractors. He said the two projects are key to the fishing industry and the coastal communities’ existence.
“ I must say that so far I’m impressed with the quality of work done by the contractors. 
The visit has given me the opportunity to see at first hand the progress of work, comparing it with the reports I had received in the office. 
It has also given me the chance to interact with the stakeholders including the communities. Key among them is the fisherfolk who are the direct beneficiaries of these projects. 
The sea defense project has many benefits including protection of lives, property, and livelihoods especially fishing activities which is the mainstay of the economy of the coastal communities. 
The visit has exposed me to some variations that I will go back to the office to discuss and redesign with the consultant to accommodate the needed variations”, he said.
Francis Asenso-Boakye, who was accompanied on his first-day tour of the Western Region by the Managing Director of the State Housing Corporation, Kobina Ampoful Appiah, also visited the State Housing developments at Ituma in the Shama District, as well as some dilapidated Police Quarters at Effiakuma.
The Works and Housing Minister is expecting to finish his tour-day of the Western Region with the inspection of the Axim and Dixcove sea defense projects in the Nzema East Municipality and Ahanta West District respectively.
The Mayor of Accra, Mohammed Adjei Sowah, says the Accra Metropolitan Assembly (AMA) is preparing for the coming rains to avoid a recurrence of flooding within the city.
His assurance comes on the back of the caution by the Ghana Meteorological Agency indicating that the country is set to experience rains in most areas, accompanied by strong winds this year.
The Mayor, in an interview with Citi News, said the necessary precautionary measures are being put in place.
According to him, most of the storm drains are being desilted by the various assemblies in Accra.
“Generally, we are also looking at preparations towards the rains because Accra is typically lying on low land, so anytime it rains heavily, the downflow of the water gets to Accra, and then, unfortunately, we also experience tidal waves which also blocks the water from entering the sea. 
Currently, the Korle lagoon is being dredged by Dreg Masters, with funding from the Ministry of Works and Housing, and the storm drains in Accra are also being desilted by the various assemblies.”
“So in terms of preparations on the water bodies, we are far in advance in making sure that the perennial flooding mostly experienced in Accra will be a thing of the past.”
The Mayor also indicated that the AMA will continue to demolish structures built on waterways, and further cautioned persons who throw solid waste into water bodies to desist from such actions.
According to him, these are the only measures by which the issue of perennial flooding can be curtailed.
“We should also be mindful that climate change has also induced and changed the rainfall pattern. 
The other side is also that people that have built on the waterways. We will continue to pull down those structures but most importantly people who throw solid waste into our drains must also stop.”
The Asantehene, Otumfuo Osei Tutu II, has tasked the Works and Housing Ministry to take steps to address perennial flooding in parts of the country.
The Asantehene expressed concern about the indiscriminate dumping of waste into drains and construction on waterways, which he cited as major causes of flooding.
He said this when the Works and Housing Minister, Francis Asenso-Boakye, paid a courtesy call on him at the Manhyia Palace during a working visit to the Ashanti Region.
Indiscriminate dumping of waste into open drains and the siting of buildings on waterways have often been cited as some of the major causes of perennial flooding in parts of the country.
Some areas within the Kumasi Metropolis and parts of the Ashanti and Greater Accra Regions have been experiencing flooding for many years.
Although there have been some interventions by government to address this situation, human behaviour in some cases is said to be impeding the efforts.
The Asantehene, Otumfuo Osei Tutu II, wants the Works and Housing Ministry to work towards addressing flooding in the country.
“Whenever there is a downpour, there is flooding because the drains are choked. 
Some people dump indiscriminately into the drains and the water is not able to flow freely. 
It was in the era of Busia that he initiated the construction of sewage systems, but that has not been continued by successive governments. 
If we don’t find a permanent solution to the flooding situation, the roads we construct will continue to deteriorate. People have also built on waterways, and this is blocking the water and causing flooding. 
When the flooding happens it is the government that is blamed. People dump into the drains, and they have to be checked. 
The Minister has been given this task and I believe he can execute it. 
Work with all the relevant authorities to address the situation. 
I know with your good upbringing you will be able to make it”, he said.
The Kumasi Metropolitan Assembly (KMA) has identified about 400 structures that have been built on waterways and is taking steps to demolish them.
Asenso-Boakye inspected some drainage projects in the Ashanti Region and called for a concerted effort to tackle flooding.
“Government has in the last four years invested so much in drainage works, but this is not something government alone can do. 
We saw the waste material that was deposited at Atafoa by the Owabi River. 
It means that people are indiscriminately throwing waste into drains and that is not the way to go. 
I have said many times that if this issue of flooding is going to be addressed, then we must see it as a collective responsibility”, he urged.
The Minister also mentioned that a flood control programme is being developed to help address the recurring situation.
The Leadership of the Kejetia Market Association has given management and Board of Directors of the new Kejetia market a two-week ultimatum to address some challenges faced by traders in the market.
According to the traders, since occupying the market spaces early 2020, they have been charged exorbitant electricity bills without any justification.
The traders also complained that although they are barely a year at the market, their biggest fear since occupying the shops has been flooding which may destroy their shops and their goods.
The Public Relations Officer for the Kejetia Traders Association, Andrews Kwofie who spoke at a news conference in Kumasi described the situation as unacceptable.
He called on the management of the market to ensure that all concerns are addressed within the next two weeks.
“Why will an edifice like this with this huge investment have leakages whenever it rains. 
We are telling management to immediately come to the aid of traders. 
There is always flooding when it rains here. 
We will consider a very drastic action if our concerns are not addressed.”
Some of these traders were selling on pavements and streets within the Central Business District (CBD) in the metropolis until they were asked to relocate to the Kejetia Market.
The directive was opposed by several traders who had raised concerns about exorbitant charges for the relocation.
However, the Chief Executive Officer for the Kumasi Metropolitan Assembly (KMA),  Osei Assibey Antwi insisted on the relocation, arguing that the decision was not a unilateral one.
The public has been cautioned to avoid walking or driving through flood waters as the rainy season peaks in Southern Ghana.
“Sometimes, a stretch of running water might seem easy to wade or swim through, but strong currents could easily sweep you off and carry you away when you attempt to swim or wade your way through.”
Mr Richard Amo-Yartey, Director for Inspectorate at the Headquarters of the National Disaster Management (NADMO), in an interview with the Ghana News Agency, also cautioned motorists against driving through flood waters, adding that many cars were swept away because drivers had underestimated the strong currents within seemingly harmless flood waters.
He said flood waters, even if one could safely swim or wade through them, also often carried dangerous objects such as faecal matter and other forms of disease-causing material and dangerous reptiles that could easily harm a human.
“It is often a much better option to be patient and wait for flood waters to recede than to risk harm that could easily be avoided,” said Mr. Amo-Yartey.
He also cautioned people staying within places that are prone to flooding and urged them to relocate to safer places to avoid the inconveniences of flooding during the rainy season.
Mr Amo-Yartey reminded the public that while the government was always working around the clock to ensure the welfare of people, individuals had the responsibility of ensuring their safety.
“The rains are here with us. 
People should be alert and stay wary of the dangers of the season, to remain safe,” he said.
Mr Amo-Yartey said NADMO was educating communities on how to stay safe in the face of floods and other ill effects of the rainy season.
He urged people in emergency situations to call the hotlines of NADMO, which are 112 or 0299350030.
Meanwhile, the Ghana Meteorological Agency (GMet) has urged the public to read its daily and weekly forecast on the website to plan their activities.
A four-hour downpour last Saturday caused flooding in many parts of Southern Ghana, including Kasoa, Weija, Adentan and many others.
Many people had to wait for some hours before they could leave or return to their homes, because of heavy flooding.
Several communities in the Nanumba South District of the Northern Region continue to suffer as floods continue to wreak havoc in homes and farms.
Some residents living close to the Oti river are counting their losses following heavy rains on Sunday, October 11, 2020, that got the several communities flooded.
Roads have been cut off making it difficult for people to access the district capital for basic needs.
The communities include Chichagi, Lahato, Egambo, Mualaa, all in the Nanumba South District.
Buildings have collapsed, farms submerged and bridges washed off.
The people say they have no place to lay their heads and are calling on the authorities to come to their aid.
“All our belongings have been submerged in the floods, I have nowhere to go. 
What to eat is even a problem. 
We need the government to support us. All my belongings are gone,” a victim said.
“All my properties are gone. 
All I have left are the clothes I have on. 
I am begging the government to help put up our structures again,” another victim shared
The District National Disaster Management Organisation (NADMO) Coordinator, Yaw Kojo Kumah Edward also appealed for support for the victims.
“Several buildings have collapsed. We can no longer identify the areas. 
We have about 157 people identified, and we are still counting. 
We are appealing to the government, religious bodies, and the NGOs to come to our aid. 
Most of these people have no one to look up to. 
They survive majorly on farming, and as their farms have been submerged in the floods, they have nothing to feed on.”
The Municipal Chief Executive (MCE), West Mamprusi in the North East Region, Aremeyaw Somo Lucky, says the GHS100,000 presented by the Vice President, Dr. Mahamudu Bawumia in support of flood victims has been disbursed.
Dr. Bawumia offered the money with an assurance that the government will assist in rebuilding the houses for the displaced victims in the area.
Villages were submerged in floodwaters following the massive torrential rains that forced the banks of three dams to break, allowing the water from the dams to rush onto the villages.
Acres of farmlands were submerged while some livestock were carried away by the floodwaters, a situation that led to the donation from Dr. Bawumia to enable the affected victims to get some relief items.
The Director-General of the National Disaster Management Organization (NADMO), Eric Nana Agyemang-Prempeh, has explained that the perennial spillage of the Bagre Dam in Burkina is a contributory factor to the recent flooding in parts Accra.
A downpour over the weekend left many parts of Accra, including Weija and its adjoining communities flooded, restricting movement and causing damage to property.
“Previously, the spillage from the Bagre Dam was flowing at 4-8million gallons per minute, but now it’s flowing 29 million gallons per minute at a very tough speed to Ghana, therefore almost all the rivers in the country are full, so the little rainfall, then it floods everywhere”
The NADMO Director General said this during a visit to some flood prone areas in the Greater Accra Region.
According to NADMO, this year, it collaborated with Municipal and District Assemblies to dredge several drains in anticipation of the rains, but the rivers could not absorb the overflow from the Bagre Dam.
Mr. Agyemang Prempeh advised those who take advantage of the rain to throw to dump rubbish into already choked drains, to put a stop to the practice; as it contributes to the flooding in Accra.
The NADMO Director General, together with the Greater Accra Regional Director, Archibold Cobbina, MP for Weija-Gbawe, Tina Naa Ayeley Mensah, and MP for Bortianor Ngleshie Amanfrom, Sylvester Tetteh, visited some victims in some of the flood prone areas at Weija- Gbawe and Bortianor Ngleshie Amanfrom.
They sympathized with the affected victims and promised to assist them with some relief items.
The Municipal Chief Executive for West Mamprusi Assembly in the North East Region, Issahaku Aremeyaw Somo, has said he escaped a robbery attack on Monday, October 12, 2020.
This happened when the MCE was travelling to communities to disburse money to victims of recent flooding in the region.
Speaking on Eyewitness News, Mr. Somo said he was able to escape the attack because security personnel came in time to open fire on a group of robbers who attempted to block his convoy.
“Fortunately the police came in. But then at the time, they had already shot a motor rider on the leg. 
I was with the chiefs distributing the money when they brought him. 
They quickly rushed him to the hospital. 
I was alarmed, so I quickly had to go back to Walewale.”
“That particular road is noted for robbery. Because of that, we mounted a number of security checks in the area and that had helped in curbing the attacks. 
But recently, the police had an accident in the area, and so they had toned down a bit, so I am sure these robbers wanted to take advantage of the situation. 
But luck evaded them,” he added.
On Thursday, October 1, 2020, four villages, Gaagbini, Dimia, Tinkaya, and Banawa were submerged in floodwaters following massive torrential rains that forced the banks of three dams to break, allowing the water from the dams to rush onto the villages.
The government gave GHS100,000 to the MCE to support flood victims in the municipality. 
Mr. Somo said he suspects the robbers may have come after the money in his possession.
“We are suspecting they came after the GHS100,000. Since then, I have had to move about with security. 
That way, my security is assured while disbursing the money.”
The Ghana Water Company Limited (GWCL) has begun spilling excess water from the Weija Dam.
This is due to the downpour in the catchment area of the Densu River basin.
It began the spillage on Sunday, October 11, 2020.
“The safe operating level of the Weija Dam is 47ft, however, the heavy rains shot the dam level from 46.8ft to 48.4ft in less than 24 hours, prompting the spillage immediately to prevent it from possible collapse,” the GWCL explained in a statement.
It thus said it has informed the National Disaster Management Organization (NADMO), the National Security, Bureau of National Investigation (BNI), Chiefs, District Assembly, opinion leaders and all stakeholders downstream the dam “to evacuate the area immediately to avoid any eventuality.”
The affected communities include Tetegu, Oblogo, Pambros Salt, Lower McCarthy Hill, Lower Weija, Bojo Beach, Ada Kopey and surrounding communities.
The company is expecting more rain in the area and has said it, along with NADMO and other sector agencies, “are making arrangement for the provision of water and other services to the people displaced by the flood.”
Residents of Weija had to contend with flooding this past weekend due to a downpour.
They have been appealing for storm drains to help with the drainage of run-off water.
Victims of flooding in the West Mamprusi municipality are still crying out for help from the state after being displaced.
A day after the government donated GHS100,000 and relief items to floods victims of Thursday torrential rain in parts of the West Mamprusi municipality, the flood victims are yet to receive improved help.
Speaking to Citi News, some displaced persons complained about hunger as food meant for the victims from the assembly are not forthcoming.
A victim of the flooding complained about the conditions in the schools being used as havens saying, “for the past three days, we have been finding it difficult to fend for ourselves.”
“We have only been provided with two classrooms to live in. 
We are over 300, but because of the limited space, we the men have left the classrooms for the women and children while we hang around outside. The food is not enough, they brought in 77 food packs whereas we are close to 300 in number.”
“We do not know what to do now, the DCE allowed us to move in here until further notice. 
The food they provide is not enough, we are forced to hand them over to the children while we strive to survive. 
They claim they have brought us food, but we are not feeling the impact. We have nothing to survive on, with no helper,” another lamented.
“The said amount donated to us by the government has not been disbursed yet, the DCE and NPP parliamentary candidate took the money to Walewale but we have not heard from them,” he added.
Vice President Dr. Mahamudu Bawumia cut short his campaign tour of the Greater Accra Region to visit the victims of the devastating floods.
Upon arrival, he donated GHS 100,000 to food victims.
Four villages; Gaagbini, Dimia, Tinkaya and Banawa have been the hardest hit in the municipality.
On Thursday, the villages were submerged in floodwaters following massive torrential rains that forced the banks of three dams to break, allowing the water from the dams to rush onto the villages.
Acres of farmlands were submerged while some livestock was carried away by the floodwaters.
A herdsman has been arrested in Tamale in the Northern Region for allegedly swindling the Tamale District Police Commander, Chief Superintendent, Iddrisu Tanko Issifu.
In his quest to become a cattle farmer, Chief Superintendent Tanko Issifu, last year, allegedly entered into a barter agreement with two herdsmen– Osman Mumuni and Seidu Braimah– who promised to sell to him cattle.
According to a police statement, the two herdsmen initially took a sum of GHS36,100.00 to supply the police chief with 53 cattle.
The two later entered into an agreement to buy his Toyota Scion with registration number GW 7-Z in exchange for 40 cattle.
After that, they again allegedly took Chief Superintendent Tanko Issifu’s Land Cruiser Prado with Registration number GS 5939-11 with his consent to supply additional 300 cattle.
According to the police statement, the district commander also gave the suspects another GHS56,000.00 to buy 70 more cattle.
The statement further indicated that, as part of their agreement, the suspects were to take care of the cattle, which numbered about 556.
However, the District Police Commander in an attempt to inspect the animals yielded no result as the herdsmen allegedly kept giving him excuses.
“When he later tried to check up on the suspects and the animals numbering about 556 cattle and 40 calves, they told him the cattle had been sent to a far distance for grazing but failed to show the whereabouts of the animals,” the statement noted.
“He went to the location of the suspects to inspect the animals, but to his disappointment no human being was found, let alone cattle.”
According to the statement, the police chief was alarmed and caused the arrest of one of the suspects while efforts are underway to apprehend the second suspect, Seidu Braimah, who is currently on the run.
The Regional Coordinating Director for Ahafo Region, Ebenezer Amoah has admonished youth in the region to desist from shying away from informal sector jobs and take advantage of such avenues to boost their economic lives.
Youth groups across the region on Wednesday, June 30 met the leadership of the region at the Regional Coordinating Council to present to them developmental challenges they face.
Krontihene for Ntotroso Traditional area, Nana Akofo Amankonah I, addressing the issues also challenged the youth to make career choices that will help them to be innovative in order to meet the diverse available target markets.
“If you’re a tailor, you can decide to master producing only boxer shorts and prosper, same as vulcanizers. One can choose to master and work on just truck tyres or tyres of small cars”, he said.
The National Youth Authority (NYA) in collaboration with ActionAid has been organizing workshops throughout the region for youth groups to deliberate on the issues confronting youth development.
ActionAid Ghana through the implementation of its three years project; Promoting Employment Opportunities for Young people in Ghana (PEOY) is empowering young people with skills and knowledge in livelihood activities and encouraging their participation in decision-making that affects their lives.
These workshops sought to establish linkages between PEOY beneficiaries, Youth Parliament members, Young Women Movement, Activists and give them a bigger voice and enable them to grow into a movement for youth advocacy in the region.
Amongst key issues presented and discussed were youth unemployment, substance abuse, teenage pregnancy, and terrible road networks.
According to KPMG Global Mining Institute, Ghana presents several opportunities in the mining sector, especially in the gold industry. Statistically, it is proven that Gold represents Ghana’s major export commodity, providing, 50% of GDP, (Ministry of Land and Natural Resources (MLNR), 2003).
Ghana is also the second-largest gold producer in Africa, after South Africa and the 10th largest globally with Peru being the sixth largest producer. 
The other important mineral resources are oil, diamond, bauxite and magnesium.
Mining has become a controversial business everywhere. 
The continuous debate of the mining business is due to its great economical contribution to the country. 
Within the past few decades, Ghana’s mining sector specifically the small-scale mining sector has been defaced with arguments mainly as a result of its threats to sustainable development. 
Small scale mining in Ghana generally refers to artisanal mining of precious minerals particularly gold and diamond. Artisanal and Small-scale mining is a practice that involves rudimentary techniques of mineral extraction, highly manual processes, hazardous working conditions, and frequently affecting the human and environmental bodies negatively.
In Ghana, it is estimated that two to three million people are engaged in this activity; about 170,000 are directly or indirectly into illegal mining (galamsey) as they solely depend on it for their livelihoods.
The term ‘galamsey’ is a local dialect, coined from the statement, “Gather and Sell” as it explains what these workers do. 
This activity is flagged as a lucrative venture and a quickest way of earning an income which makes local Ghanaians, particularly the youth the active participant in this sector. 
Illegal mining seeks to be the only alternative of alleviating poverty to the people involved but in two folds perpetuates poverty through high sensitivity to physical hazards, illness, accidents, and lack of knowledge about more efficient, safer, and environmentally friendly techniques.
In recent cases, there has been a season of tragedy as it has been recorded that people involved in this activity lost their lives as a result of being trapped when a pit collapses or a landslide occurs and affect the water bodies. 
On Wednesday, November 11, 2009, an estimated 30 illegal miners lost their lives as a result of landslides at Dopoase in the Wassa Amenfi East District of the Western region where 14 out of the 18 retrieved corpses were women.
Similarly, there was another tragedy at Dunkwa-On-Offin in 2010 in the Central Region where several miners were trapped in a pit when it caved on them near the Offin river resulting in the death of 100 miners. The inception of this activity is not affiliated with a single body or organization. Citizens are equally to be criticized. 
It is known that this activity takes place under cover of darkness or hidden places such as forests, existing farms, river beds, valley and remote areas aided by foreigners especially the Chinese.
Since 2000, about 50,000 Chinese gold miners have migrated to Ghana to engage in small-scale mining.
The rapid relocation of these foreigners was mainly driven by the high demand for gold prices, increasing cultural corporation between China and Ghana and the largely informal nature of the illegal mining. 
The remodel traditional method of using pickaxe, shovel and pan to new technology such as the use of excavators cause environmental threats and social conflicts where the indigenes attacked the armed Chinese miners. Consequently, there is a proven climatic and social change due to the nature of the work, bad weather conditions, and degradation of natural resources which disturbs human survival in these artisanal environments. 
The primitive techniques of these miners which are illegal and unregulated contaminate the water as a result of the discharged sewage which contains toxic chemicals such as cyanide and other organic chemicals used in the processing of mineral ores. These chemicals together result in waste with high acid levels which either seep into underground water or flow into the environment posing danger to the people.
The unchanged attitudinal behaviour of the political actors, law enforcement bodies, local chiefs and farmers towards the practice of illegal mining make this activity thrive. The law enforcement body provides these foreigners with guns to defend themselves from locals on the grounds of generating a beneficial budget for the police and immigration authorities. 
There is also a lack of political will to combat this activity which is evidently because these politicians also benefit from these activities; the political leaders send threats to the appointed leaders of the task force to release the seized excavators or lose their jobs which derails the nation’s fight against galamsey.
Chiefs and landowners of these mining areas are rendered powerless when the foreigners proceed to work on their lands with a granted permission from the lawmakers in the state. 
In a quest to fight this activity, in May 2013, former President, John Mahama set up an inter-ministerial task force to roll out illegal small-scale miners where they were able to deport 4592 Chinese officials by mid-July 2013 but despite their efforts failed to entirely wipe out illegal mining activities. Similarly in August 2017, the task force arrested over 1370 miners including 247 Chinese officials with consequent arrest 33, 15, 7, 24 in April, June, August and September respectively.
Although these actions brought about diplomatic dilemmas to Ghana, President Nana Akufo-Addo on his visit to China in 2019 assured the Chinese officials on how the country remains keen to encourage economic corporation but would not hesitate to persecute China national involved in the illegal mining activity to ease the diplomatic tension between these two countries. 
In a scientific published article by the World Bank titled, Strategy for African Mining, it is estimated that some 30,000 people are employed within the legalized segment of the Ghana small-scale mining sector. Minerals Commission and Ghana Chamber of Mines, also noted that 60 per cent of the country’s mining labour force is, in fact, employed at small-scale mines.
Regional employment assessments have estimated that over 6,000 illegal and 117 registered artisanal gold mines are found in Tarkwa alone. 
According to the 2008 Ghana Chamber of Mines (GCM) report, illegal mining activities (galamsey) have been increasing with an estimated number between 300,000 and 500,000 artisan miners comprising one of the largest groups of illegal miners on the continent disregarding the small-scale mining laws promulgated in 1989 with its continuation in the Minerals and Mining Act, 2006 (Acts 703) which expresses the basic position that minerals in their natural state are owned by the state and outlines the license scheme for mineral operations, the incidence of the various mineral rights and the power of the principal regulatory institutions yielded no results as according to the 2008 Ghana Chamber of Mines (CGM) report, illegal mining activities have been increasing with an estimated number between 300,000 and 500,000 artisan miners yielding one of the largest groups of illegal miners on the continent.
Nationally, galamsey addresses huge sums in lost incomes and exports. 
In 2016, the Ghanaian government lost an estimated $2.3 billion in financial incomes through illegal mining. 
Comparatively, the country’s top three major unfamiliar organizations by and large produce over 30% of the country’s gold creation and add to above half of the government incomes. 
It is in this margin both in terms of the output and labour force that the government must formalize galamsey practices as it would represent a critical fiscal boost for the country not disputing the fact on how it is publicly known as a challenge for the government to set policies on how to benefits from the artisanal and small-scale mining while minimizing the negative consequences mining activities.
Similarly in August 2017, the task force arrested over 1370 miners including 247 Chinese officials with consequent arrest 33, 15, 7, 24 in April, June, August and September respectively. 
Although these actions brought about diplomatic dilemmas to Ghana, President Nana Akufo-Addo on his visit to China in 2019 assured the Chinese officials on how the country remains keen to encourage economic corporation but would not hesitate to persecute China national involved in the illegal mining activity to ease the diplomatic tension between these two countries.
In a scientific published article by the World Bank titled, Strategy for African Mining, it is estimated that some 30,000 people are employed within the legalized segment of the Ghana small-scale mining sector. Minerals Commission and Ghana Chamber of Mines, also noted that 60 per cent of the country’s mining labour force is, in fact, employed at small-scale mines. Regional employment assessments have estimated that over 6,000 illegal and 117 registered artisanal gold mines are found in Tarkwa alone.
According to the 2008 Ghana Chamber of Mines (GCM) report, illegal mining activities (galamsey) have been increasing with an estimated number between 300,000 and 500,000 artisan miners comprising one of the largest groups of illegal miners on the continent disregarding the small-scale mining laws promulgated in 1989 with its continuation in the Minerals and Mining Act, 2006 (Acts 703) which expresses the basic position that minerals in their natural state are owned by the state and outlines the license scheme for mineral operations, the incidence of the various mineral rights and the power of the principal regulatory institutions yielded no results as according to the 2008 Ghana Chamber of Mines (CGM) report, illegal mining activities have been increasing with an estimated number between 300,000 and 500,000 artisan miners yielding one of the largest groups of illegal miners on the continent.
Nationally, galamsey addresses huge sums in lost incomes and exports. 
The government must however educate and provide the miners in the rural areas the needed resources in terms of tools for a safer conducive environment and preserve the natural bodies. 
The means of controlling the galamsey activities do not entirely depend on the political actors. 
It must be recognized as a collective effort, from political actors, chiefs, the law enforcement body and the citizenry.
To conclude, this research has addressed a number of significant issues which shows that illegal mining if not harnessed would stall the country’s development and the smooth running of the country.
The 1992 constitution of the Republic of Ghana states that chiefs are the overall custodians of the customary land however, the state own the resources underneath or on the surface of the land. 
It is in this regard that the government must involve the traditional leaders and other stakeholders and be on the same page in relation to the laws and policy making.
The government should employ ways to enlighten and aid the people involved in this activity to improve their standard of living. 
This can be done by educating them on the prices, providing them with well-equipped tools, creating a forum where miners can share their experiences on the financial means of production and processing respectively.
The government can grant university graduates from the mines sector to regulate these activities. 
Mining schools in the country with the authorization of the government can establish a consulting firm where the students and graduates can be recruited as monitoring officials instead of the security officials which also helps reduce unemployment in the state.
The government should register the small scale or galamsey business under a well-structured established corporation with norms and values to uphold which will help regulate and manage this activity to ensure an effective and environmentally friendly mining techniques.
It is quite known and asserted that abolishing galamsey is not the best option for the government. 
The state can, however, curb the problems by enforcing fixed regulations in the various mining codes with regards to environmental restoration. 
For instance, strict rules should be adopted to ensure that miners cover their pits when they finish their operation.
The Municipal Chief Executive for Asante Akyem South, Alexander Frimpong has denied his involvement in illegal mining activities in the area.
The MCE was accused of being complicit in a recent galamsey activity that resulted in the death of one person.
But the MCE in an interview with Citi News denied this claim
“Some persons who were pained and think that I contributed to their defeat are spreading such falsehood.”
The Assembly Member for the area also reiterated that Mr. Frimpong had never been involved in galamsey activities.
Our attention has been drawn to a media release on the subject as indicated above.
The said release is about a collapsed galamsey pit which killed one person at Obroni Junction near Ofoase.The story attributes the galamsey pit as one owned by our Municipal Chief Executive, Hon. Alexander Frimpong and the constituency Youth Organizer, Mr. Simon Agyemang.
We want to state categorically clear that, it is untrue the pit belongs to our Honorable MCE and constituency Youth Organizer. 
It’s another attempt by people who are trying all negative means to destroy the reputation of our hardworking MCE and incite His Excellency the president against him.
We want to repeat here that,our MCE is not a galamseyer,he has never engaged in galamsey activities and he will never engage in acts he is helping the president to fight and eliminate. As indicated in previous press release, Hon. Alexander Frimpong is fighting the galamsey menace in the municipality. His hard work and directives has led to the arrest of 3 galamsey operatives who are currently facing trial at the Juaso Circuit Court.
Our investigations has it that the person behind the twisted story is one particular aspirant in the last NPP constituency parliamentary primaries and his cohorts who are also interested in getting their candidate nominated by the president for the position of MCE.
According to the municipal police commander and the Assembly member for the area,the said mining pit is an old pit of about 20years. 
The Children had gone there in search of gold as they have occasionally been doing and unfortunately the pit collapsed and in the process killed one of them.
A leading member of the opposition National Democratic Congress (NDC), Sylvester Mensah, has described as lazy and reckless the burning of excavators used for illegal mining in various parts of the country.
He said the excavators can be put to better use, to develop communities and create value for the economy rather than destroy them.
In a Facebook post, the former NHIS head said the current approach smacks of ‘insufficient thinking process’.
The government in a renewed fight against illegal mining across the country especially in forest reserves and on water bodies has deployed hundreds of soldiers to remove illegal miners from different parts of the country.
Reports received so far from the grounds show that as part of the operations of the security officers, they burn excavators and other equipment used in the illegal mining process.
But according to Sylvester Mensah, the government must rethink the approach of burning the excavators.
He said a future NDC government will not burn seized galamsey excavators.
“A future NDC government would not burn seized galamsey excavators. Clearly, it is a lazy and reckless mindset. 
Earthmoving equipment can be put to many other important uses, in many communities in this country,” he said.
“Considering this nauseous Bawumia economy with its self-inflicted epileptic power supply, one would have thought that this government, having dispossessed galamsey owners of their equipment, would put them to alternative uses to develop our communities and generate value for the economy… 
We are witnessing the manifestation of an insufficient thinking process.”
The Minister for Defence, Dominic Nitiwul in a recent press engagement said in this new phase of the military operation, one wooden accommodation facility, ten plastic chairs, 28 excavators, 18 water pumping machines, eight (8) industry batteries, five canoes and 267 Changheng machines had been destroyed.
The rest are 21 new pumping machines, two (2) industry machines, a KIA Truck, two (2) pump action guns were also seized.
The case of the 33 supposed National Security operatives who were arrested for galamsey activities in the Eastern is getting more intense as the Kaneshie District Court refused jurisdiction to hear the case and grant them bail.
Drama unfolded when the court turned down an invitation to grant bail to 11 of the suspects who appeared before it.
The prosecutor, ASP Sylvester Asare, was in court to secure a remand order to enable the state to gather evidence and make its case against the suspects.
A case of possession of firearms without lawful excuse is being built against them.
But the defence lawyers drew Her Worship, Ama Adomako Kwakye’s attention to Section 192 (2) of the Criminal and Offences Act 1960, Act 29 as amended, which requires the Attorney General’s written consent in such matters before the court can entertain it.
Her Worship Adomako Kwakye, on the basis of the provision, declined to hear the case.
She said the consequence of the provision was that there was neither a case of bail nor remand properly before the court to be heard, and subsequently released the suspects.
But as is the situation in such cases, and was to be expected, all 11 suspects were immediately re-arrested.
According to the prosecution, the 33 accused persons presented themselves as operatives of the National Security set up but in fact, are not.
The suspects have been accused of visiting several mining communities in and around the Eastern and Ashanti Regions to undertake illegal mining activities.
They are said to have threatened residents, demanded and seized unspecified kilos of gold and varying sums of money from certain galamsey operators acting in the name of National Security.
The state submitted that security agencies picked intelligence sometime in January that the accused persons armed with rifles were undertaking illegal mining activities in the name of the National Security and harassing communities around the Eastern Region.
And on May 4, 2021, a team of plain-clothed and uniformed personnel from the National Security Secretariat were dispatched to the Akenteng forest reserve, near Osinease in the Eastern Region where they rescued the accused persons from the clutches of angry youth.
This operation the Prosecution said was supported by officers from the Eastern Regional Police Command.
The accused persons were subsequently transported to Accra for interrogations during which they are said to have admitted that they were not National Security Operatives.
They, however, claimed ownership of the weapons retrieved.
They are also said to have disclosed that they were in the forest to undertake reconnaissance.
The exhibits, according to the prosecution, included a Tudor short gun, pump-action, two shotguns, assault rifles and 10 rounds of ammunition as well as a cougar pistol.
The prosecution said exhibits retrieved from the accused persons include a Tudor shotgun, a pump-action shotgun, assault rifles and 10 rounds of ammunition as well as a cougar pistol.
The team also retrieved from the accused persons 12 Gotta handsets, three handcuffs, four shovels and an electronic shocker.
The Ghana Armed Forces have commenced the second phase of their security operation to fight illegal small-scale mining.
A statement from the Ministry of Information said the exercise, dubbed ‘Operation Halt II’ is aimed at “removing all persons and logistics involved in mining on water bodies”
“The new phase of the operation focuses on the tributaries of the Pra River, which have also been significantly affected by the activities of illegal miners,” the statement added.
The Ghana Armed Forces have also commenced armed patrols of the Pra river.
The operation is being undertaken by four hundred (400) men of all ranks.
Ghanaians have been advised to stay away from mining in water bodies to avoid any action by the forces
As part of recent efforts against illegal mining, 200 military personnel were deployed to flush out illegal miners destroying water bodies in the country.
The directive was based on the suggestions the government received during the Stakeholder Dialogue on Small Scale Mining which took place from April 14 to 15, 2021.
The Asantehene, Otumfuo Osei Tutu II is urging the government to ensure greater involvement of chiefs in the fight against illegal mining.
He says the seeming neglect of chiefs in the fight may have resulted in its failure in the past hence the need to do things differently.
Speaking at the Manhyia Palace after some officials of the Minerals Commissions called on him, the Asantehene says chiefs must be made to play a role in the fight against galamsey.
He said chiefs must also be involved in the process of issuance of mining permits, adding that the failure to get chiefs involved in such processes, forces them to get involved in the illegal mining instead, hence jeopardizing the fight.
“The constitution even says all minerals are vested in the president, but we know that the gold is vested in the soil and the local chief is in charge of the soil. 
A stranger can be given a permit to mine on the chief’s land but the maps and licence for mining are given in Accra. 
Because the chiefs are not involved, they also join in the galamsey. 
If the chief is involved in the process, this will not happen,” he said.
Illegal mining locally referred to as ‘galamsey’, has, over the past few years, dominated national conversations following a major campaign by Citi FM highlighting the devastating effects of the practice.
In 2017, Nana Akufo-Addo declared that he was prepared to put his presidency on the line in the fight against galamsey.
His declaration was amidst new measures such as the deployment of police and military personnel to arrest illegal miners across the country and the introduction of a community mining programme aimed at regulating small-scale mining in communities in an environmentally sustainable manner.
Recently, there have been complaints that the water bodies that were regaining their natural state at the height of the fight against galamsey are becoming polluted again due to the increasing activities of illegal miners in various parts of the country.
President Akufo-Addo again made public statements on the development, saying that there is a need for an open discussion on the subject.
The government, through the Ministry for Lands and Natural Resources, subsequently held a two-day National Consultative Dialogue on Small-Scale Mining that, among other things, urged the government to firmly enforce the country’s laws on mining.
As a result of that dialogue, the Lands Minister directed all persons prospecting or carrying out reconnaissance activities in forest reserves to cease within seven days.
The move is said to be one of many to be rolled out as part of efforts to deal with illegal small-scale mining in Ghana.
he fight against galamsey is assuming a wrong turn due to Government’s own past failures in the fight. As a people, we must be worried because the havoc caused by galamsey activities is life-threatening and has the potential to endanger the collective future that we all envisage.
The activities of galamseyers are gradually leading to very serious irredeemable environmental situations which include loss of biodiversity, clean water and pollution of our soil.
It is obvious that the institutional framework for the implementation of small-scale mining laws has completely broken down with corruption taking center stage. 
The failure of the Akufo Addo led government to deal with the situation within the last four years shows its weakness and incompetence in dealing with the issue of galamsey.
The just ended Stakeholders dialogue was a confirmation of the failed approach adopted by the Government in the past four years. 
We hoped that from the said Conference, new methodologies of dealing with the menace would have emerged for adoption.
Sadly, the Statement issued by the Minister of Information conveying the resolutions of the Stakeholders’ forum as a way of dealing with the menace is a false start.
The statement at best is hollow and lacks clarity as to the direction of these new operations.
The content of the statement suggests Government is involved in the business as usual and does not provide any critical out-of-the-box solution to addressing the challenge.
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo for the umpteenth time, indicated his commitment to fighting the phenomenon of illegal small-scale mining, commonly known as galamsey in Ghana.
The President reiterated he will do everything in his power in his second term to bring the galamsey menace to a halt in Ghana during a courtesy call on him by  Okyehene Osagyefo Amoatia Ofori Panin and the Akyem Abuakwa Traditional Council.
Prior to the meeting, the government through the Ministry for Lands and Natural Resources had held a two-day National Consultative Dialogue on Small-Scale Mining that, among other things, urged the government to firmly enforce the country’s laws on mining.
In furtherance of the resolutions of the final communiqué of the Stakeholder Dialogue on Small Scale Mining, and to ensure that mining within water bodies is immediately stopped; the President of the Republic, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, has authorized the Ghana Armed Forces, to commence an operation to remove all persons and logistics involved in mining from Ghana’s water bodies.
Government seems to be adopting the same failed approach in the fight against galamsey, hence there is no guarantee of improved results. We cannot continue to do things the same way and expect a different result.  
Water bodies that were regaining their natural state at the height of the fight against galamsey are becoming polluted again due to the increasing activities of illegal miners in various parts of the country.
In July 2017, President Akufo Addo served notice that he was prepared to put his Presidency on the line in his quest to fight illegal mining. 
However, considering the state of galamsey today and its devastating effect on the environment including land, rivers, and water bodies, it is clear to all and sundry that the President’s fight against galamsey has failed.
The President, having failed to fight the menace, the honorable thing to do would be for him to resign from office to uphold his integrity. 
Dishonorably, we are again treated with a plethora of promises and assurances. 
Words they say are cheap. 
The President must walk the talk. 
This galamsey matter is serious and must be given all the needed attention as a people. 
Water is life.
Delivering a speech at the National Dialogue on Small Scale Mining on Wednesday, April 14, 2021, the President said interestingly that although he is determined to enforce the laws on individuals who are caught engaging in ‘Galamsey’, he will not activate them based on mere allegations. 
No Ghanaian has said the President should convict persons based on hearsay or lack of evidence.
In any case, the President does not have the power to convict any person in Ghana – only the Courts do. 
The President’s position again demonstrates the seeming lack of interest in President Akufo Addo to tackle the galamsey menace head-on and crack down the whip on corruption.
This is in sharp contrast to promises by then Presidential Candidate of the New Patriotic Party, Nana Akufo Addo, who indicated his readiness to differently fight corruption through, among other things, the introduction of the Anas principle, the mode of investigation used by one of Africa’s ace investigative journalists, Anas Aremeyaw to create a new culture of fear for corrupt practices.
It is therefore not surprising that up to date practically no sanctions have been meted out to Western Regional Secretary of the New Patriotic Party (NPP) and former Secretary of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining, Charles Bissue, for his role in the galamsey fraud scandal despite corruption allegations against him by Anas Aremayaw Anas, whose principle the President promised to adopt in the fight against corruption.  
It is also no wonder that no action has been taken in respect of the missing excavators’ saga.
Till now, no report has been issued by the Operation Vanguard Taskforce to update Ghanaians on their role, challenges, and impact in the fight against illegal mining. 
Indeed, some military officers were caught in a Joy News documentary actively engaged in the activity.
Hence, the resolutions and approach by the Government to adopt similar strategies by involving the military in an activity they have already been engaged in shows the lack of ideas and clear direction by the Government in tackling the phenomenon.
For citizens to be fully confident of the Government’s fight against galamsey, Government must report fully to Ghanaians on the activities of the Operation Vanguard Taskforce and indicate to Ghanaians the whereabouts of the missing excavators.
If the Akufo Addo-led Government wants the full support of Ghanaians in the fight against galamsey, there must be transparent and accountable and be willing to fully disclose who the interest holders are in all these galamsey sites.
Government must be clear on the sanctions it intends to impose on perpetrators as the present state of galamsey operations contravenes citizens’ rights to life, health, environment, and the principles of inter-generational equity. Furthermore, galamsey activities violate Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15.
Mere orders to the military will not address this challenge as many of the officers themselves are complicit in the fight against illegal mining, without any known administrative actions and sanctions against them.
The Member of Parliament (MP) for the Tamale North constituency in the Northern Region, Alhassan Suhuyini. is sceptical about the government’s renewed fight against illegal mining in Ghana.
According to him, the government’s renewed commitment to tackling the menace is “structured to fail”.
His comments come on the back of the recent deployment of 200 military personnel to flush out illegal miners destroying water bodies in the country.
A statement from the Information Ministry said, “In furtherance of the resolution of the final communiqué of the Stakeholder Dialogue on Small Scale Mining on April 14 to April 15, and to ensure that mining within water bodies is immediately stopped; the President of the Republic, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has authorized the Ghana Armed Forces to commence an operation to remove all persons and logistics involved in mining from Ghana’s water bodies.”
“The operation commenced at 0600 hours on Wednesday, April 28, 2021, on the River Pra in the Central and Western Regions of Ghana. 
Two Hundred (200) officers of the Ghana Armed Forces are involved in the operation,” the statement added.
Speaking on Citi TV‘s Breakfast Daily show on Thursday, April  29, 2021, the Tamale North legislator said the government should have supported the regional and district security services to deal with the menace, rather than deploying military men to the mining sites.
“I think this new approach to fighting galamsey, with the deployment of the military, is structured to fail. 
I think the approach should use the regional security councils, the district security councils, and then when they require backup you give them the backup.”
“Let them deal with their operational needs, and then you [government] support from the centre [to help them] carry out these activities.  
This approach will give better results than repeating what we have always done in the past. 
I think that the president should have learnt some very good useful lessons from the first fight since he himself has admitted that the last four years has been a failure, given the amount of money that we have thrown at this fight.”
The Lands and Natural Resources Minister, Samuel Jinapor, has said the fight against illegal mining, locally known as “galamsey”, is at a crossroads.
He is, however, hopeful the fight will be won.
According to him, a lot of policies and programmes have been rolled out to tackle the menace in a more sustainable way.
Speaking at a meeting with Regional Ministers at the Jubilee House, Mr. Jinapor said the government will not renege on the fight against illegal mining in the country.
“Given all that has happened so far with respect to the issues to do with small-scale mining, we are now at a crossroads. In other words, we have had a Consultative National Dialogue and have put in some arrangements to regulate small-scale mining and end the issue of galamsey once and for all in the interest of the nation.”
The government recently renewed its commitment to fight illegal mining at a National Consultative Dialogue on Small Scale Mining, where stakeholders charged the government to take steps to strictly apply the country’s mining laws.
This has led to many actions being taken in that regard.
The government ordered persons undertaking prospecting activities in forest reserves across the country to indefinitely suspend such activities.
It also directed the Minerals Commission to desist from processing or granting any request for the renewal of prospecting licenses in forest reserves.
“The Minister for Lands and Natural Resources hereby directs persons and/or companies engaged in reconnaissance and/or prospecting in Forest Reserves, with or without legal authorization, to suspend such activities until further notice…
The Minister for Lands and Natural Resources has further directed the Minerals Commission, with immediate effect, not to accept, process and/or recommend the grant, including the renewal and/or extension, of reconnaissance and prospecting licenses in Forest Reserves,” a statement from the Lands and Natural Resources Ministry said.
The Minister of Information, Kojo Oppong Nkrumah, says government will soon roll out a sustainability programme on the deployment of soldiers to flush out illegal miners operating in the country’s water bodies.
According to him, this measure is meant to help the government deal with illegal mining issues conclusively.
200 military personnel were deployed on Wednesday, April 28, 2021, to flush out illegal miners destroying water bodies in the country.
The Ghana Armed Forces took this decision based on a directive given it by the President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo.
A statement from the Information Ministry said the operation commenced on the River Pra in the Central and Western Regions.
“In furtherance of the resolution of the final communiqué of the Stakeholder Dialogue on Small Scale Mining on April 14 to April 15, and to ensure that mining within water bodies is immediately stopped; the President of the Republic, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has authorized the Ghana Armed Forces to commence an operation to remove all persons and logistics involved in mining from Ghana’s water bodies.”
“The operation commenced at 0600 hours on Wednesday, April 28, 2021, on the River Pra in the Central and Western Regions of Ghana. 
Two Hundred (200) officers of the Ghana Armed Forces are involved in the operation.”
Mr. Oppong Nkrumah in a subsequent interview with Citi News said all persons mining in the forest reserves will be flushed out.
“The Ministry of Defense and the Ghana Armed Forces would roll out in detail what the sustainability plan is to ensure that this time we get a lot more results even beyond what we got for the first time. 
The forest reserves are no-go areas for mining. 
It’s not about legal or illegal. 
That is why the president has authorised this operation of the Ghana Armed Forces to remove all persons and logistics that are being used for mining, and they are starting on the River Pra.”
A former Minister of Lands and Natural Resources Minister, Inusah Fuseini, says President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo could create a lasting legacy by ending illegal small-scale mining, commonly known as galamsey in Ghana.
According to him, the current generation and future ones will applaud him if he is able to end the menace.
The former Tamale Central legislator’s comments come on the back of recent statements by the president, reiterating his commitment to fighting galamsey..
President Akufo-Addo said he will do everything in his power to bring the menace to an end in his second term, which ends in January 2025.
He noted that major rivers such as the Birim and Ankobrah have been polluted due to the activities of illegal small-scale miners and, as such, he will put more effort into the fight to ensure that future generations are not deprived of the water, mineral and natural resources currently being threatened by galamsey.
“We’ve seen what has happened to River Birim, Ankobrah, and other major water bodies. 
I’ll put a lot of effort into the galamsey fight for Ghanaians to know that I’m serious about the fight so that we can bequeath to the next generation the gold, water, and other resources we inherited from our forefathers. 
I intend to do everything within my power in this second term to bring this galamsey menace to a conclusion in Ghana,” he stated.
Mr. Fuseini has challenged the president to walk the talk by ending the menace in order to help secure Ghana’s future.
“There is more to it than words. 
It is the action that is required, but I agree with the president and challenge him to put in more effort because he has said all the right things. 
Ghana’s ecosystem has taken us a long time to get it where it is and we cannot just watch on and allow a few miscreants to destroy it for their personal gain. 
Our ancestors knew [about] the gold that we have but they never prospected for gold in water bodies, and they never also destroy the forest cover for gold. 
They rather handed to us – this generation – an ecosystem that we were proud of and that we could even beat our chest and say that we are the largest producers of cocoa. 
This is what they handed over to us, what are we handing over to the next generation?”
“We cannot allow these greedy people to destroy it for us. 
We cannot and we must not. The president must act and act now. 
Mr. President, if you can’t create any legacy at all, the lasting legacy will be to mitigate the harmful effects of illegal small-scale mining in this country by banning such activities. 
If you so do, not only this generation but generations yet unborn will applaud you for it.”
Mr. Inusah Fuseini made the call on Citi FM/TV‘s weekend current affairs programme, The Big Issue on Saturday, April 24, 2021.
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has, for the umpteenth time, indicated his commitment to fighting the phenomenon of illegal small-scale mining, commonly known as galamsey in Ghana.
He said he will do everything within his power to bring the menace to an end in his second term, which ends in January 2025.
Nana Akufo-Addo said this when the Okyenhene, Osagyefuo Amoatia Ofori Panin and other leaders of the Akyem Abuakwa Traditional Council paid a courtesy call on him at the Jubilee House on Friday, April 23, 2021.
He noted that major rivers such as the Birim and Ankobrah have been polluted due to the activities of illegal small-scale miners and as such, he will put in a lot of effort into the fight to ensure that future generations are not deprived of the water, mineral and natural resources currently being threatened by galamsey.
“We’ve seen what has happened to River Birim, Ankobrah and other major water bodies. 
I’ll put in a lot of effort into the galamsey fight for Ghanaians to know that I’m serious about the fight so that we can bequeath to the next generation the gold, water and other resources we inherited from our forefathers. 
I intend to do everything within my power in this second term to bring this galamsey menace to a conclusion in Ghana,” he stated.
Illegal mining, locally referred to as ‘galamsey’, has, over the past few years, dominated national conversations following a major campaign by Citi FM highlighting the devastating effects of the practice.
In 2017, Nana Akufo-Addo declared that he was prepared to put his presidency on the line in the fight against galamsey.
His declaration was amidst new measures such as the deployment of police and military personnel to arrest illegal miners across the country and the introduction of a community mining programme aimed at regulating small-scale mining in communities in an environmentally sustainable manner.
Recently, there have been complaints that the water bodies that were regaining their natural state at the height of the fight against galamsey are becoming polluted again due to the increasing activities of illegal miners in various parts of the country.
President Akufo-Addo again made public statements on the development, saying that there is a need for an open discussion on the subject.
The government,t through the Ministry for Lands and Natural Resources, subsequently held a two-day National Consultative Dialogue on Small-Scale Mining that, among other things, urged the government to firmly enforce the country’s laws on mining.
As a result of that dialogue, the Lands Minister directed all persons prospecting or carrying out reconnaissance activities in forest reserves to cease within seven days.
The move is said to be one of many to be rolled out as part of efforts to deal with illegal small-scale mining in Ghana.
The entire cocoa industry in Ghana is at risk of collapse if the European Union (EU) carries out its threat of banning the country from its market.
This is according to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Ghana Cocoa Board (COCOBOD), Joseph Boahen Aidoo.
It follows threats from the EU that it will ban cocoa from Ghana if the negative impact of illegal mining on the country’s environment persists.
Mr. Boahen Aidoo, in an interview with Citi News, called on all stakeholders to help curb illegal mining in a bid to avert the collapse of the cocoa industry.
“This is a major issue because Europe takes about 80 percent of our cocoa exports. 
Should they ban or impose restrictions on us, it will be very difficult for us to sell our cocoa. 
As a nation, we need to take a position on this and fight these illegal mining activities together devoid of politics”, he said.
Currently, Ghana exports 80 percent of its cocoa to the European Union.
However, the Union is threatening the ban cocoa from Ghana because areas shown in satellite images to have been forest areas in the 70s and 80s in Ghana have all experienced land degradation in recent times.
Stakeholders in the agricultural value chain have expressed fears about the impact of the development on Ghana’s cocoa sector.
Already, the Deputy Chief Executive in-Charge of Agronomy and Quality Control at COCOBOD, Dr. Emmanuel Agyemang Dwomoh has called for immediate action to be taken to avert the possible sanctions.
“As we speak, EU is threatening to ban Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire, to impose legislative instrument restrictions on the importation of cocoa from Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire to their courts.”
“When you take the satellite images, you will see some places in red. The EU thinks that all those places are red because cocoa is causing land degradation [in Ghana], meanwhile, it is as a result of the galamsey activities”, he added.
In January 2021, the Union announced that it will contribute €25 million to enhance the economic, social and environmental sustainability of cocoa production in Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana and Cameroon who are, respectively, the first, second and fifth-biggest cocoa producers, generating almost 70% of the world’s total production.
This funding is to strengthen the partnership between Team Europe (composed of the EU, its Member States, and European financial institutions) and the three cocoa-producing countries and aims at ensuring a decent living income for farmers, halting deforestation and eliminating child labour.
The European Union (EU) is threatening to ban cocoa from Ghana if the negative impact of illegal mining on the country’s environment persists.
Making a presentation at the ongoing National Consultative Dialogue on Small Scale Mining in Accra today, April 15, 2021, the Deputy Chief Executive in-Charge of Agronomy and Quality Control at COCOBOD, Dr. Emmanuel Agyemang Dwomoh, expressed fears about the impact of the development on Ghana’s cocoa sector.
Currently, Ghana exports 80 percent of its cocoa to the European Union.
Dr. Emmanuel Agyemang Dwomoh believes immediate action must be taken to avert the possible sanctions.
“As we speak, EU is threatening to ban Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire, to impose legislative instrument restrictions on the importation of cocoa from Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire to their courts.”
He said the EU is taking this course of action because areas shown in satellite images to have been forested in the 70s and 80s in Ghana, have all experienced land degradation in the decades since.
“When you take the satellite images, you will see some places in red. The EU thinks that all those places are red because cocoa is causing land degradation [in Ghana], meanwhile, it is as a result of the galamsey activities.”
He further raised concerns about the devastating effects of the galamsey activities on the production of cocoa in Ghana and its exportation.
“The impact of these mining activities on cocoa production is enormous. 
There is crop loss, reduction of crop yield and income, loss of vegetation, the fertility of the crop soil is destroyed and [there’s also] an early dropping of immature pods as a result of the chemicals that they use,” he lamented.
In January 2021, the European Union announced that it will contribute €25 million to enhance the economic, social and environmental sustainability of cocoa production in Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana and Cameroon who are, respectively, the first, second and fifth-biggest cocoa producers, generating almost 70% of the world’s total production.
This funding is to strengthen the partnership between Team Europe (composed of the EU, its Member States, and European financial institutions) and the three cocoa-producing countries and aims at ensuring a decent living income for farmers, halting deforestation and eliminating child labour.
The Member of Parliament (MP) for Ningo-Prampram, Mr. Sam Nartey George, has urged President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo to stop the rhetoric and hit the ground running in the galamsey fight.
In his view, President Akufo-Addo is only paying lip service to the fight against illegal small-scale mining, locally known as galamsey, instead of fighting it head-on.
According to him, the president is only giving Ghanaians nice “soundbites rather than real action”.
The Ningo-Prampram lawmaker insisted that those behind the menace are either government appointees or person aligned to the governing New Patriotic Party and thus urged the President to crack the whip to serve as a deterrent to others.
“Mr. President, it is your party national executives and regional executives, your party people, your presidential staffers, your former ministers who are engaged in the galamsey menace. 
They are the people carrying out small-scale mining and destroying our water bodies. So Mr. President, put your money where your mouth is. If you want to fight galamsey, deal with your own appointees. Stop giving us soundbites and give us real action.”
“The truth is that Mr. President, it is your party people who are doing the galamsey. 
Nobody in the NDC is engaged in it because we don’t control the security agencies that are protecting these illegal miners. We don’t manufacture excavators in this country, they all come through the port. 
So who is giving permits for those excavators to be imported? 
If the government is really committed to fighting the menace, can’t the government place a ban on the importation of all excavators?”
Mr. Sam George made the call on Citi TV‘s Breakfast Daily programme on Thursday, April 15, 2021.
His comments come on the back of the ongoing National Consultative Dialogue, a forum the President is hopeful will come out with a better roadmap for dealing with galamsey activities once and for all.
“Out of this maiden consultative dialogue, I hope we will build a national consensus around a national policy on small scale mining, that promotes a responsible, viable, environmentally sustainable small-scale mining industry, which has discarded the use of mercury, ‘changfangs’ and excavators, which has barred the involvement of foreign nationals, and which has rejected the destruction of our forests, environment and water bodies,” President Akufo-Addo said.
Lands and Natural Resources Minister, Samuel Abu Jinapor wants stiffer punishment for politicians, chiefs and kingpins behind illegal mining in Ghana.
Mr. Jinapor says dealing with such persons will go a long way to help the fight against illegal mining.
Speaking at the opening of a national dialogue on illegal mining in Ghana, Samuel Abu Jinapor said a lot more stringent actions must be taken to deal with the menace.
“How do we name, shame and punish politicians, chiefs, religious leaders and people with money and influence who are promoters of this criminal cartel in this industry?”
Another key question the minister was interested in was: “what kind of enforcement regime is required which bites and does so without fear or favour?”
The National Consultative Dialogue on Small Scale Mining, which will end today, April 15, 2021, is expected to come out with a communiqué on the solution to the illegal mining menace.
The forum has been a two-day roundtable discussion on challenges confronting the small-scale mining sector.
It has had inputs from key mining experts, the Small-Scale Mining Association, the Coalition of Civil Society Against Illegal Small-Scale Mining, among others.
Some stakeholders at the ongoing National Consultative Dialogue on Small Scale Mining have proposed the strict enforcement of mining laws as one of the solutions to the many problems in that sector.
Environmental group A Rocha Ghana has warned that the Ghana Integrated Aluminium Development Corporation (GIADEC) push for bauxite exploration will open doors to illegal mining.
Though the corporation has pledged to ensure safe mining activities, A Rocha feels the illegal activities will be beyond its control.
“The problem observed by GIADEC will only get worse with bauxite mining: building mining roads into closed forests opens up currently inaccessible areas to illegal operators,” A Rocha said in a statement.
“The illegal mining and logging you see today will flourish in the protected area once GIADEC facilitates access for illegal actors,” it added.
A Rocha stressed that mining in in the Atewa forest “will be a terminal cancer that will erode forest integrity and the ecosystem services they provide over time”.
It urged GIADEC to follow in the footsteps of aluminium companies that have agreed not to use raw materials sourced from the Atewa Forest.
Members of the International Union for Conversation of Nature (IUCN) on November 4, 2020, voted to adopt Motion 103 calling for “Urgent measures to safeguard the globally important Atewa Forest in Ghana”.
“If GIADEC is to fulfil its stated commitment to international best practices and standards, the Atewa Forest must be completely off-limits to bauxite mining,” A Rocha said.
The Atewa Forest is a Key Biodiversity Area teeming with thousands of animal species and a source of clean drinking water for more than 5 million Ghanaians.
A Rocha Ghana has read the statements made by GIADEC during a meeting with journalists and published on Monday 5 April and is responding to key points raised.
GIADEC said it rejects as ‘propaganda’ an apparent claim that the whole of Atewa Forest will be destroyed by bauxite mining. 
It says the area it will be ‘playing’ with – a surprising term to use for an activity that will cause so much damage to livelihoods, species, habitats, and clean water – is about 10% or less over 50 years, and would mine 5 million tonnes of bauxite in that time. 
To be clear, civil society’s concerns are over the location proposed for bauxite mining – that is, the mountain tops – as this is within Atewa’s legally protected area and is also the most critical for biodiversity and clean water. Loss of the forest and habitats here would be irreversible and would also cause wider damage to the integrity and ecosystem service provision of a much greater area of forest around it. 
But GIADEC seems to completely miss this point. 
Bauxite mining in Atewa Forest, no matter how small, will be a terminal cancer that will erode forest integrity and the ecosystem services they provide overtime. 
Atewa is a critical forest ecosystem, it is not to be ‘played’ with.
The statement said that participants were briefed on a baseline biodiversity study of the proposed mining area as part of documenting the area’s life forms. 
But this is unnecessary. Several research documents both recent and old have already been published of the species found in Atewa Forest including the proposed mining area. 
These reports show that Atewa Forest contains many endangered and endemic species that would be threatened with extinction if bauxite mining goes ahead. Instead of another biodiversity report, an independent Social and Environmental Impact Assessment (ESIA) is what is urgently needed to document how mining will impact on the forest, species, habitats, ecosystem services, livelihoods and access to clean water. 
An ESIA is supposed to form part of any decision-making process over whether or not a development action should go ahead, but this has not been done.
GIADEC’s statements did claim that reclamation plans have been proposed as well as draft report produced. 
Are these documents publicly available and how can civil society access them for independent examination and validation?
Private sector investors are also urged caution. The IUCN’s Resolution 087 passed in November 2020 urging protection of the Atewa Forest and which received overwhelmingly support, “STRONGLY REQUESTS” all companies in the mining sector not to participate in any mining activities in or near Atewa Forest and all companies using aluminium to ensure that no aluminium from Atewa Forest enters their supply chains”. 
The Concerned Citizens of Atewa Landscape (CCAL) have made it very clear that they do not want mining companies entering their forests and destroying their resources, livelihoods, and clean water sources. 
Civil society supports their stand and urges caution to any private sector company interested in mining bauxite in the Atewa Forest. 
A number of aluminium user companies have already stated their objections to aluminium produced with bauxite from Atewa. 
If GIADEC is to fulfil its stated commitment to international best practices and standards, the Atewa Forest must be completely off limits to bauxite mining.
GIADEC has done one good thing, though, by raising the issue of illegal mining and forest destruction in Atewa Forest, stating we will one day “get up and find that there is no forest at all”. 
Civil society has also made this point countless times over the years. 
The destruction of state gazetted forests by illegal activities should be the concern of any state agency that has the wellbeing of Ghanaians at its centre. 
Citizens should not have to fight our government agencies to ensure that we benefit from the judicious and sustainable use of our natural resources. Or is the government and its agencies deliberately allowing the forest to be decimated by illegal actors, to serve as justification for mining it? A typical case of “give the dog a bad name so you can hang it”? (while communities continue to suffer the impacts?) 
The problem observed by GIADEC will only get worse with bauxite mining: building mining roads into closed forests opens up currently inaccessible areas to illegal operators. 
The illegal mining and logging you see today will flourish in the protected area once GIADEC facilitate access for illegal actors.
There are currently several non-extractive uses for forests such as Atewa Forest that have significant prospects of harnessing green investments that will offer quality green jobs and ensure wellbeing for all.
We urge GIADEC to work with us to explore these green investments for the benefits of Ghanaians today and tomorrow.
The Ghana Water Company Limited in the Eastern Region says activities of illegal small scale miners, popularly referred to as galamsey, continue to hinder water operations.
Currently, the water company is rationing water in most parts of the region and has on numerous occasions shut down water treatment plants at Osino, Bunso, and Kyebi as a result of activities of illegal miners.
As Ghana joins the rest of the world today to commemorate World Water Day, the Eastern Regional Public Relations Officer of the Ghana Water Company Limited, Kwadwo Daase hopes that there is a lasting solution to the galamsey menace which affects its operations.
“The challenge with production and supply of water for us on World Water Day is the raw water source that is the rivers and water bodies which serve as the raw materials for us and our concern for years is the impact of illegal mining or galamsey on these water bodies. 
Anytime we are celebrating World Water Day, we wish that we don’t talk about this menace which is still persisting in areas like Osino, Busum etc. 
Our plant there has to be suspended several times.”
He however called on residents to bear with the water company as it continues with its water demand schedules.
“The water supply cannot meet the demand in Koforidua, Somanya, Odumasi areas, etc. The advent of COVID-19 and the need for people to use water has increased the demand for water. 
We have stretched our plants to the elastic limit so we only have to deal with the only little we have, that is why we are trying to put in this water demand management schedule; whereby we supply this area for two or three days, and we revert to the other side of town which is really helping. There were complaints all over that two or three weeks we are not getting water and when we started this the people are appreciating it. ”
In January 2021, Mr Kwadwo Daase called on the government to streamline the activities of the illegal miners and some road contractors which was affecting water supply.
The GWCL had to shut down the Kyebi treatment plant due to high turbidity as a result of the activities of illegal miners operating along the Birim River.
The Minister for Environment, Science, Technology and Innovation-designate, Dr. Kwaku Afriyie, has targetted the regulation of excavators as a measure to tackle illegal mining.
Speaking during his vetting, Dr. Afriyie cited the introduction of heavy earth moving equipment to small scale mining in 1989 as the day “Ghana’s environmental problems begun.”
He thus said Ghana must regulate excavators “severely.”
To address the problem, Dr. Afriyie suggested that excavators be accounted for and banned.
“We should have a census of excavators in this country, and we should even consider a temporary ban on them.”
Decommission some of them, sell some of them off and then put a ban on some of them and by attrition get the numbers that we can use for small scale mining,” he added further.
The nominee also said the danger posed by chanfans which are used to wash minerals in water bodies should also be banned.
“We should criminalise the unlicensed manufacture of washing plants because you know that washing plant is going to be used to do galamsey in water bodies.”
In addition, he said the current generation of Ghanaians was not entitled to all the mineral resources thus, the overall act of mining should be regulated.
“We should have a law that based on the available resources we have, perhaps no more than 50 square km should be mined at any point in time just like we regulate frequency moderation in this country.”
He hopes to implement these suggestions,  should he take office.
Dr. Afiyie said the threat of illegal mining “will be severely assuaged and this country will be the better for it”.
The Ghana Armed Forces says it has commenced investigations into allegations some of its personnel are protecting illegal mining operations.
Recent media reports suggest that some members of the Ghana Armed forces are complicit in illegal mining activities though the military forms an integral part of the anti-illegal mining taskforce.
In a statement signed by the Director of Public Affairs for the Ghana Armed Forces, Colonel Aggrey Quashie, the Military command says it does not condone such acts and will appropriately sanction any of its personnel complicit in the illegal practice.
“The Ghana Armed Forces has taken notice of media reports alleging that some of its personnel have been involved in providing security for illegal mining operations. 
The Ghana Armed Forces take such allegations seriously as it does not condone such wrongdoing if true.”
“Accordingly, a full-scale investigation has commenced into the allegations and appropriate sanctions to be handed out to any person or persons found out. 
The Ghana Armed forces also assure the general public of its unflinching commitment to the national course,” it added.
In March 2020, the government officially withdraw the military component of its anti-illegal mining taskforce, Operation Vanguard, from the field.
Operation Vanguard started as a Military-Police Joint Task Force set up in 2017 to combat the operations of illegal miners in Ghana.
But taskforce’s operations have been marred by controversy amid allegations of corruption.
In one instance, three soldiers of the task force were investigated for allegedly trying to extort money from illegal miners in the Wassa Akropong area in the Western Region.
The Concerned Small Scale Miners Association has welcomed President Akufo Addo’s call for an open stakeholder discussion on illegal small-scale mining popularly known as galamsey.
The Association says the move is a step in the right direction since all attempts to use security forces to clamp down on the activity has failed to yield the desired results.
The President of the Concerned Small Scale Miners Association, Michael Kojo Peprah in a Citi News interview said President Akufo-Addo’s call vindicates the association on their earlier stance that the deployment of military personnel to clamp down on the illegal activity will not yield any result.
He said the government must bring together all stakeholders and receive their inputs on how best to tackle the phenomenon.
“They should understand that, in the beginning, we told them that all these things about bringing the military will not help. In 1989, they brought the military it failed, 2000, 2012 it all failed. So when do we always do the same things and expect a different result? 
What they have come to realize is that what we were saying is true. They should extend their hand, and we will all come and all the expertise and solutions we have, we will put it on paper and help mother Ghana, so the country will benefit from mining,” he said.
President Akufo-Addo in delivering the last State of the Nation address in his first term on Tuesday, January 5, 2021, said it’s about time the government, traditional leaders and various stakeholders in the mining industry discuss the impact of illegal mining on the country devoid of politics.
“There is one subject…I believe we the people need to have an open conversation, and that is the phenomenon of galamsey. 
Should we allow or not allow galamsey?” President Akufo-Addo said.
“We have to talk about galamsey. We who are leaders owe it to the country to take the subject out of the party political area and have an honest conversation about this menace to our future,” he added.
A former Member of Parliament (MP) for the Bantama constituency and the Executive Director of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Henry Kokofu has called on the flagbearer of the opposition National Democratic Congress (NDC), John Dramani Mahama to stop politicising galamsey issues in the country.
Mr. Mahama has promised to retrieve all confiscated excavators and concessions belonging to small scale miners in the country if he wins the 2020 elections.
According to him, President Akufo-Addo has failed in his promise to fix the problems facing small-scale miners in Ghana.
But Mr. Kokofu believes the NDC flagbearer should be blamed for all the challenges the country is facing in dealing with the menace.
The EPA Executive Director insisted that the activities of the illegal miners heightened during the former President’s tenure.
“I don’t understand the basis for the hypocrisy about the galamsey fight from NDC because it was under their tenure that the activities of galamsay heightened in this country; from 2011, 2012, up to 2014 and leading to 2016.”
“…But for me, it is not about apportioning blame. 
We as a nation through President Akufo-Addo have decided to fight this and that is where the focus should be. 
We shouldn’t focus on the propaganda gimmicks going around saying he will give back the seized excavators. 
So he should stop this propaganda he is doing.”
He made these comments when he appeared on the news review segment of Citi TV’s Breakfast Daily on Thursday, October 22, 2020.
In a related issue, the Minister for Lands and Natural Resources, Kwaku Asomah-Cheremeh has debunked claims that the government has sold a number of the excavators that were seized at the height of the war against illegal mining in Ghana
According to the sector minister, such claims by the NDC that some excavators are missing, sold and stolen do not hold water.
“The number we have is 157 at Adentan, Obuasi, and Tarkwa. 
The number that I have provided are numbers that are on site. 
The place is not walled, they can go and check. The claim by NDC that 500 excavators are missing, sold, and stolen is neither here nor there.”
Mr. Asomah-Cheremeh further challenged any individual who has proof of the said allegations, to produce evidence to authenticate the said transactions.
“I stood at the Prestea-Huni valley area in February and told journalists that the government or the ministry has not done any such thing, but the accusations persist. 
Whoever thinks otherwise should come forward with better particulars,” he dared.
Hundreds of angry miners have vowed not to leave the concession of the Ghana Rubber Estate Limited (GREL) near Adiewoso in the Western Region.
The miners openly resisted moves by uniformed personnel in the Operation Vanguard team to forcefully eject them from the concession.
According to them, they are operating legal community mines and will not leave the site, swearing not to end their operations there since that is their only source of livelihood.
Superintendent Douglas Kumi, the officer commanding for Operation Vanguard in the Western Region said their intention was to invite the leadership of the miners to engage with them on their operations and ascertain if their activities were legal.
He said they are disappointed in the leadership over their inability to control the miners in their conduct hence the security personnel will go back to their station, reorganize themselves and return to the site.
“Looking at the numbers and the situation, we will withdraw and get organized again.”
“We cannot arrest all the people and therefore we have also not inspected their documents to know whether what they are doing is legal or illegal. 
We came with the intention of taking the leadership, sit down with them and know their background… 
But the leadership has proven to me this morning that they will not be able to control the people and if that is so, as police we will go back and reorganize,” he said.
One of the miners who spoke to Citi News said their operations are not illegal.
“This is the community mining project for Ahanta West. This morning, police came here to drive us away. We are not doing this without permission. 
Look at the number of people doing this work, this is not illegal, we are not thieves. 
The government paid for our education at the University for Mines and Technology (UMAT) and opened this community mining project for us. 
Our chiefs engaged the government for us to begin this project. We’ve done nothing wrong,” he said.
The Ghana Rubber Estates Limited, GREL, last week lamented over the illegal occupation of its lands by what it said was politically induced galamsey.
The company said the development threatens their investment of about £550,000.
The natural rubber producers who in 2018 with the support of the One-District-One-Factory begun expansion of its production by 25,000 tons per annum.
“The forcible take-over of GREL lands by several communities for Galamsey activities is an act of illegality that has to be condemned and the instigators or perpetrators brought to book. 
This illegal invasion of GREL lands will certainly affect directly the raw material base needed for the two factories and also defeats the purpose of the support GREL had from the One District One Factory Initiative for the construction of the 1st Phase of its new rubber processing factory,” the company said in a statement.
Meanwhile, reacting to the development, the Corporate Affairs Manager of GREL, Perry Acheampong, reacting to the allegations by the galamseyers that they have permits to operate Community Mines after the Operation Vanguard failed to halt their operations said the have not permitted any such activity in their concession.
“Ghana Rubbber Estate Limited has 50-year lease to operate and has not given out any part of our concession in the area for Community Mines. 
In fact, we complained about the galamsey activities in our concession to the assembly which they told us they would investigate. 
If the government at any point approach as they want to to have a portion of our concession for such activity, we are ready to have a discussion on it but what is going on there is illegal since we haven’t given out any part.”
“The forcible take-over of GREL lands by several communities for Galamsey activities is an act of illegality that has to be condemned and the instigators or perpetrators brought to book. 
This illegal invasion of GREL lands will certainly affect directly the raw material base needed for the two factories and also defeats the purpose of the support GREL had from the One District 
One Factory Initiative for the construction of the 1st Phase of its new rubber processing factory. 
It also puts at risk Ghana Rubber Estates Limited since the availability of land is very key to its existence, hence, without the availability of land for its nucleus plantation GREL will not be able to operate…
The activity if not stopped could affect an estimated area of 350 acre part of GREL Estate Division 3 located near Adeiwoso on the Apimenim-Elubo Highway. The area was planted with rubber in 1960’s and GREL recultivated it with rubber again in 2010. 
The investment done by GREL from 2010 to date is about £550,000 which could be lost if they are not stopped. 
GREL could also lose 3.5million of revenue over the next 30 years if that area is destroyed.”
Social commentator Sidney Casely-Hayford has described the government’s reported plans to use drones to fight illegal small mining after restructuring Operation Vanguard as a waste of time.
Speaking on The Big Issue, Mr. Casely-Hayford said he thought it was “a brain-dead solution” and that such a plan “will die before it is even born.”
“This a waste of time. It is not the answer to the problem,” he added.
These reported plans accompanied reports that the government will from March 2020 withdraw the military component of its anti-illegal mining taskforce, Operation Vanguard, from the field.
To continue effective monitoring of the sector, Citi News sources said the government was going to rely on mining guards and 144 drone pilots who are under the Nation Builders Corps.
But Mr. Casely-Hayford remarked that such plans have not been thought through.
“I think that we have not sat down to critically decide how we want to resolve this problem [of illegal mining],” he said.
He reiterated that whatever plan the government came up with must focus “on guaranteeing the cleanliness of the water bodies.”
“As to how somebody the ground and gets it, give them the regulations. 
If you dig and don’t find any gold or dig up as much gold as you want, leave the place in the condition you found it.”
Findings by some lecturers in the Political Science Department of the University of Ghana cited the fight against illegal mining as the second most disliked government policy.
As part of this policy, over 200 drones were procured by the government to assist its fight against illegal smal scale mining across the country.
The drones are used to take live images in districts where the practice is rampant.
Recent trainees underwent training in how to operate the drones at the George Grant University of Mines and Technology at Tarkwa in the Western Region.
The withdrawals of the soldiers was also a reminder for some that observers had described such an approach as unsustainable.
The failings of the military over the years started with the late 1980s where the first recorded nationwide operation against illegal mining was undertaken after the passage of the Small Scale Mining Law, PNDCL 218, 1989.
Another military operation took place in November 2006 named “Operation Flush Out” and was noted for allegations of human rights abuses.
In 2013 the government sanctioned a security operation under the banner of an “Inter-Ministerial Taskforce” which made use of military personnel.
The Alliance for Social Equity and Public Accountability (ASEPA) is shocked that the Office of the Special Prosecutor declined to probe acts of corruption hampering the fight against illegal mining in the country.
ASEPA had petitioned the office to probe the mining sector and ensure the enforcement of small scale mining laws with a focus on the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining and the anti-illegal mining task force, Operation Vanguard following the disappearance of hundreds of excavators seized from illegal miners.
But the Office in a response to the petition indicated that the matter presented does not raise questionable issues in terms of corruption to warrant its attention.
Reacting to the latest development on Eyewitness News, Executive Director of ASEPA, Mensah Thompson disclosed that his outfit will resort to the law courts to get the Special Prosecutor to conduct the necessary inquiry into the matter.
“I am very much disappointed at the response of the office of the Special Prosecutor. 
The response smacks of some inconsistencies and dishonesty in the way the Special Prosecutor responded. 
Our next line of action is to refer the matter to our lawyers. 
We have a meeting coming up to consider what will be the issues in terms of the law. 
We want to assure the good people of Ghana that this matter has not ended yet because we are determined to get to the bottom of the matter. 
We will look at local remedies available to us including International Union on the Conservation of Nature and other international bodies that deal with the protection of the environment. 
These are serious matters that we do not have to joke with,” said Mr. Thompson.
The letter signed by the Special Prosecutor, Martin Amidu explained that the Police Criminal Investigations Department (CID) had already launched a full-scale investigation into the matter.
The Special Prosecutor in the letter said the CID is in a better position to handle the issue.
“A review of your letter of complaint, however, has led this Office to the conclusion that the facts and conjects upon which underpin your complaint do not raise any issues of corruption and corruption-related offences as narrowly defined under section 79 of office of the Special Prosecutor Act, 2017 (Act 959) to warrant any investigations by this Office,” Martin Amidu added in the letter.
ASEPA had said recent allegations of corruption in the fight against illegal mining “show that the whole fight against illegal mining was a sham and a plot to get licensed small scale miners out of business so that some elements in the government can take over small scale mining in the country.”
The group further held that the allegations “border on offences such as stealing, bribery, corruption, abuse of public office for private gain and other serious offences” which fall under the purview of the Special Prosecutor.
So far, six persons have been arrested in connection with the missing excavators and since granted bail.
The six, include the suspended First Vice Chairman of the New Patriotic Party in the Central Region, Ekow Ewusi, who was also heard in an audio recording with the Environment, Science and Technology Minister, Professor Kwabena Frimpong-Boateng discussing the prospect of mining on some concessions.
The Minister of Environment, Science, Technology and Innovation, Professor Kwabena Frimpong-Boateng has denied allegations that his son, Jojo Frimpong-Boateng is involved in mining in Ghana’s forest reserves.
He indicated that such allegations are untrue.
Prof. Frimpong-Boateng issued the disclaimer in an interview with journalists on Thursday after the President’s State of the Nation Address.
Prof. Frimpong-Boateng told journalists that “he [his son] is not involved in anything and the world will get to know soon.”
There were some reports that a company linked to the son of Prof. Frimpong-Boateng, Jojo Frimpong Boateng, was involved in illegal mining.
The reports were trumpeted by some members of the opposition National Democratic Congress (NDC) as well as the Assin Central legislator, Kennedy Agyapong.
Kennedy Agyapong had alleged that some mining excavators seized by the government from alleged illegal miners had been given to Jojo Frimpong-Boateng through Ekow Ewusi who is currently being held by police over the disappearance of seized excavators.
Speaking on his Net2 television, Kennedy Agyapong said, “How can you seize people’s excavators for illegal mining and turn around to give it your son for his mining activities?”
The Minister in the interview also denied any involvement in alleged corruption in the fight against illegal mining.
“Everything that I have done in this world is for Ghanaians. 
I have not done anything for myself. Look at me; I have not taken bribes before. 
I have not extorted money from anybody before. I have not done anything wrong before,” he said.
There have been calls for him to resign or be axed during the aftermath of revelations about the disappearance of hundreds of excavators seized from illegal miners.
The Ranking Member on the Mines and Energy Committee of Parliament, Adam Mutawakilu, even called for his arrest.
However, the Minister remained resolute when queried on the matter insisting that the state will get to the bottom of the controversy.
All seized mining excavators that have gone missing will soon be found.
This is according to Professor Kwabena Frimpong-Boateng, the Minister for Environment, Science, Technology and Innovation.
According to him, the country’s security agencies are following up on the issue closely and will soon bring it to its logical conclusion.
The sector minister who has come under serious attack from a section of the public over his inability to account for all the equipment seized from illegal miners said he is confident that every stolen equipment will be found.
He told journalists on Thursday that “every excavator that has been stolen will be found…
I don’t want to overstep what the security people are doing so let us be patient. You will get the facts pretty soon.”
It was revealed that the excavators seized by Operation Vanguard from illegal miners and some small scale mining companies which flouted the ban on small scale mining had gone missing.
There were allegations that some top members of the governing New Patriotic Party (NPP) were involved in illegal mining and they had appropriated some of the excavators to themselves despite the public campaign against the practice.
The opposition National Democratic Congress (NDC) had said that the government’s ban on small scale mining was only a “smokescreen” to kick out other miners and allow persons aligned to the NPP space to mine clandestinely whilst the ban was still in force.
Jojo Frimpong-Boateng, son of the Minister is amongst those accused of being involved in illegal mining and using a missing excavator for the act in some of the country’s forest reserves.
But the Minister said the allegation against his son is false.
“He [Jojo Frimpong-Boateng] is not involved in anything and the world will get to know soon,” the Minister said.
Meanwhile, the suspended First Vice-Chairman of the NPP in the Central Region, Horace Ekow Ewusi who has become the centre of the controversial issue of the missing equipment has been captured in a viral video allegedly claiming that he together with the NPP General Secretary, Boadu were tasked by the sector minister to use the seized excavators to mine in various concessions.
The money raised from these activities, Mr. Ewusi alleged would help fund the political activities of the NPP.
John Boadu subsequently denied the allegation.
Prof. Kwabena Frimpong-Boateng had petitioned the Criminal Investigations Department of the Ghana Police Service to investigate Horace Ekow Ewusi over his alleged involvement in the missing earth-moving equipment.
Ekow Ewusi was contracted by the government to cart excavators and other vehicles and pieces of equipment seized by Operation Vanguard to designated areas for safekeeping.
So far, six persons arrested over the disappearance of the missing equipment have been granted bail.
President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has renewed his commitment to tackling the issue of illegal small scale mining popularly referred to as ‘galamsey’ in the country.
Delivering the State of the Nation Address in Parliament on Thursday, the President indicated that government still stands by its position to use all available means to address the galamsey menace which continues to destroy large portions of the country’s vegetation cover and water resources.
This comes at a time when many have taken on the government for what they consider as government’s failure to deal with the menace as promised in the run-up to the 2016 general elections.
While commending the efforts of the media coalition against galamsey and the Inter-ministerial Committee against Illegal Mining, Nana Addo mentioned that he will ensure that no one in government neglects his or her responsibility in the fight to protect Ghana’s environment.
“When we came into office in January 2017, galamsey activities were rampant in many parts of the country. Our lands, forests and river bodies were being systematically degraded and destroyed without any care and this had been the case for several years. 
The previous NDC government had given up the fight against galamsey but we determined that this was an intolerable situation and we owed it to generations unborn to tackle the problem and save our environment. 
I was therefore not under any illusion about the size and scope of the problem that we are taking on.”
“I was cheered by the support of the large population that recognized the dangers posed by the degradation of our lands and water bodies and the needless deaths of many young people who were buried alive in makeshift mining pits. Mr. Speaker, the threat posed to the future of our country by galamsey is grave. 
We cannot shirk our responsibility in the fight against galamsey. Government will not weaken its stance and welcomes the continued support of the media coalition. 
The Inter-ministerial Committee against Illegal  Mining has been working very hard and has some successes.”
The governing New Patriotic Party (NPP) says the fight against illegal mining popularly known as “galamsey” should be depoliticized.
The menace according to the party, affects all and thus a collective effort is needed to tackle it.
This appeal comes on the back of accusation by the opposition National Democratic Congress (NDC) that the government has failed to deal with illegal mining; a situation that is adversely affecting the country.
Director of Communications for the NPP, Yaw Buaben Asamoa said all hands must be on deck to end galamsey.
“We are aware that, the allegations of the missing excavators have brought the issue of galamsey to the fore. 
Happily, the matter has been referred to the police. 
We expect institutions of enforcement to be bold about it. 
Ideally, we would have wished the NDC leadership will deal with us rather than engage in petty politics that divide us. 
We believe that this should have been bi-partisan so that we deal with it in the context of challenges that face all of us and in a better way. 
Typical of the NDC, they have reduced this whole thing into three things – blame the president, scream loudly that the solution is not working and seek for the vote of the people without any alternative.”
In the past week, the NDC has described the government’s fight against galamsey as a failure because of several actions by government appointees and the issue of missing seized equipment.
But the NPP, on the other hand, has absolved itself from any wrongdoing insisting the fight against the menace is in full force.
Already, various bodies have called on the government to provide details on the progress or otherwise made on the fight against galamsey, with the NDC, demanding for a public exhibition of the seized excavators.
There has been so much talk about the fight against illegal mining in the last few months. 
This is partly because of how concerted the effort to rid the country of the menace was. 
Then, in recent weeks, how apparent it seems now that the battle against illegal mining has been lost.
In light of the above, we need to do some introspection of how the crusade against illegal small scale mining began, take a look at some of the gains made and how things started falling apart three years down the line. 
This is necessary because it will put things in perspective. 
It is also very necessary because the first gentleman’s job is on the line.
In 2016, Citi FM spearheaded the crusade against illegal small scale mining.
At the time, major water bodies in the Western, Ashanti and Eastern regions that supplied water to over ten million residents in these areas were heavily polluted.
The Ankobra, Offin and Birim rivers were the focal points. 
The Ghana Water Company warned of dire consequences at the time. 
The Company that treats water and distributes to our homes said if the situation was not addressed by stakeholders, the near future would be calamitous for the country. 
It warned at the time that Ghana may be resorting to the importation of water in the next two decades if the problem was not addressed. Because of the turbidity of the water bodies mentioned, its production plants had to work extra to purify water for domestic consumption and most of the river bodies were drying up or being polluted beyond redemption.
This generated considerable discussion in the country, compelling government to institute some measures.
Government eventually placed a ban on all forms of small scale mining in May 2017.
It set up the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining (IMCIM). IMCIM is made up of ten ministries including the Lands and Natural Resources, Defence, Interior, Local Government and Rural Development, Regional Re-organization, Chieftaincy and Religious Affairs, Monitoring and Evaluation, Information, Sanitation & Water Resources, and Environment, Science, Technology and Innovation (MESTI) as chair for the committee.
A military and police team christened Operation Vanguard was subsequently commissioned by the IMCIM with four operating bases in the Ashanti, Eastern, Western and Central regions. 
Their mandate was to flush out all illegal miners and enforce the ban on all forms of small scale illegal mining.
Their mandate was to streamline the activities of Operation Vanguard and the small scale mining licensing regimes. 
A year after its inauguration in 2018, it vetted and issued licenses to over 600 miners to go back to work.
In 2017, the Chief Justice also designated seven (7) High Courts and Seven (7) Circuit Courts located in Accra, Sekondi, Kumasi, Cape Coast, Koforidua, Sunyani and Bolgatanga to deal with all mining offences committed under the Minerals and Mining Act, (Act 703). Indeed, Parliament also amended the Minerals and Mining Act, to prescribe harsher punishments for offenders.
Mandated State institutions like the Forestry Commission and the Minerals Commission were strengthened to enforce the laws on small scale mining.
The IMCIM also acquired technologies like Galamstop, an App that integrated activities of all regulatory bodies in the fight against illegal mining.
The ban on all forms of small scale mining was partially lifted in December 2018 a year after its enforcement. 
It saw over 600 miners vetted and cleared to go back to mine in an environmentally friendly manner. 
The vetting had begun a month earlier, thus November 2018.
Let me take you through some of the rudiments these miners went through before they were given the permits to mine again. 
All registered small-scale miners whose licenses were operational as at April 1, 2017, were to submit all relevant documentation to the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining (IMCIM) Secretariat, before Friday, September 7, 2018.
The documents they are expected to present include Mining License, Environmental Permit, Operating Permit, Certificate of Registration, Tax Identification Number, two copies of passport size photos, Birth Certificate, Passport or Voter’s ID and current contact details.
Miners who sailed through the vetting were cleared eventually return to their sites.
Another group GalamSTOP Taskforce was commissioned by IMCIM on 29th September, 2019 to augment activities of Operation Vanguard. 
This parallel force has been questioned as its role has not been properly clarified.
The IMCIM Secretariat also procured drones to monitor activities of illegal miners, especially in the forest reserves. 
My checks with the IMCIM indicate that a total of 144 drone pilots from the Nation’s Builders Corps, were trained. 10 of the trainees were assigned to IMCIM, 18 for Operation Vanguard and 15 for the Minerals Commission.
It also acquired speed boats to aid Operation Vanguard to flush out illegal miners operating along water bodies. 
As of 2019, Operation Vanguard had arrested about 2,000 illegal Miners with Chinese and Ghanaians being the worst culprits.
At the peak of the campaign, there were reported cases of water bodies returning to their natural states. 
The government also introduced the community mining project in 2019, to streamline mining for interested indigenes in mining areas.
On the back of these gains, the Chairman of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining, scored their achievement at 70 percent.
Gains have been made but there are some major setbacks militating against the Stop Galamsey fight.
The secretary of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining, Charles Bissue, for instance, was implicated in a documentary allegedly taking a bribe to aid the issuance of mining license
He has since stepped down from his role as Secretary to the Committee. 
He was cleared of the allegations by the Criminal Investigations Department. 
But the Special Prosecutor arm of the investigations is still ongoing albeit slow.
There have been allegations of bribery and extortion against members of Operation Vanguard. 
This is seriously affecting their operations.
Forestry Commission officials have also stated on record that some powerful politicians are behind the illegal small scale mining enterprise, making it practically difficult for them to enforce the law.
The slow pace of prosecution of arrested illegal miners is also worsening matters.
The latest in the twist of events, is the case of the missing excavators. 
The Chairman of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining (IMCIM), Prof. Frimpong Boateng alleged that some seized excavators have gone missing.
During the peak of the crusade between 2017 and 2019, about five hundred excavators were seized from illegal miners. 
They were to be kept in the custody of the police by law.
In Ghana’s mining laws all seized or confiscated item should be supervised by state security agencies like the police, military or immigration.
Reports of the disappearance of the excavators and the subsequent arrest of an official of IMCIM, who is also the suspended Central regional NPP vice-chairman, Horace Ekow Ewusi and six others beg for answers.
Another mind-boggling announcement by the small scale miners was that the ounces of gold seized by IMCIM at the period are also missing.
These are serious allegations President Akufo-Addo must investigate if he really meant putting his job on the line. Mind you the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining (IMCIM) is directly under the Presidency.
As a mining reporter who has followed and reported on mining issues, I now understand why many at the time said the formation of the IMCIM was counter-productive. 
From all indications, it has been. 
Its Secretary, Charles Bissue has been implicated for allegedly taking bribes. 
He is still being investigated by the Office of the Special Prosecutor.
Its Chairman, Professor Frimpong Boateng has also been caught on tape in a conversation that seems to suggest he had and his party sought to privately profit from the confiscation of the excavators to fund their political party’s activities. 
That is scandalous, to say the least.
The cost of an excavator ranges between 270,000 USD and 320,000 USD. 
It costs between GHS2,200 and GHS2,700 to rent an excavator for a day (that’s 8 hours). 
How could they have done this?
How do we salvage the already damaged reputation of IMCIM? 
It does not need any salvaging; it must be completely dissolved. 
Its Chairman should have been fired or made to resign by now. 
The Minerals Commission can do a better job. 
There are laws that regulate the small scale mining space. 
The Minerals Commission is now decentralised. 
It has regional and district offices. 
The recent addition is the Regional office in Tamale. 
It has added four new mining district offices in addition to the existing nine and opened eight new satellite offices. 
It has also recently recruited 71 people and 220 Mining wardens to assist the Commission. 
While this may not be enough, there is clearly some capacity at the Minerals Commission and with their institutional understanding of the mining space, they are better placed to take over from the IMCIM.
After the dissolution of IMCIM, innovations like Galamstop, the drones and the numerous vehicles should be given to the Minerals Commission to bolster their resources and strengthen their hand to enable them do a superior job.
The Member of Parliament (MP) for Tamale North, Alhassan Suhuyini has urged the President to account for all items seized in the fight against illegal mining.
Already, various bodies have called on the government to provide details on the progress or otherwise made on the fight against galamsey, with the National Democratic Congress (NDC), demanding for a public exhibition of the seized excavators.
Alhassan Suhuyini, on the Floor of Parliament on Tuesday, said: “His Excellency the President who boldly put his Presidency on the line to demonstrate how much this course meant to him, if for nothing at all, Mr. Speaker, has his Presidency to save and it will be important that he starts by accounting for and to the people of Ghana all equipment, vehicles, weapons, ammunition and gold which were seized and kept by officers he commissioned to help end illegal mining and if necessary, penalize all who have proven to be negligent or complicit in what may have gone wrong.”
He also urged the House to probe the amount of money released for the fight against illegal mining and whether it was used for the right purpose.
“Mr. Speaker, in the face of what is clearly less than a successful campaign, I suggest humbly that your Parliament also shows more interest in how funds approved for this exercise to the various institutions have truly be expended and the results attained. 
Because these are funds belonging to the people whose interest we in all humility represent,” he added.
The NDC has asked the government to account for all excavators and ammunition seized during the Stop Galamsey Campaign.
According to the Communications Director of the party, Sammy Gyamfi, the government had seized 900 excavators during the campaign.
He cited figures in the 2020 budget presented in Parliament to support his claim.
Addressing a press conference on the banks of River Pra at Twifo Praso in the Central Region on Sunday, Mr. Gyamfi challenged the government to make a public presentation on the state of the items.
A former Minister for Environment, Science and Technology under the erstwhile Mahama administration, Akwasi Oppong Fosu, has called for an intensive investigation into the missing excavators case.
Mr. Fosu in an interview said an intensive investigation into the matter will bring some finality to the issue.
The Ghana Pentecostal and Charismatic Council has also thrown its weight behind calls for Akufo-Addo to take a keen interest in the alleged missing excavators and gold saga.
The latest call comes on the back of a similar one made by the Concerned Small Scale Miners.
In an interview with Citi News, General Secretary of the Council, Rev. Emmanuel T. Barrigah said the Council expects that people found culpable in the ongoing investigations will be dealt with.
Meanwhile, the Alliance for Social Equity and Public Accountability (ASEPA) has petitioned the Office of the Special Prosecutor to investigate alleged corruption in the enforcement of small scale mining laws.
ASEPA wants the Inter-Ministerial Committee against Illegal Mining and the anti-illegal mining task force, Operation Vanguard, to be the focus of the probe by the Special Prosecutor.
In the petition, it highlighted the need for “full investigations into the misappropriation of seized items such as excavators, mining equipment, gold and weapons by the IMCIM through the fight against illegal mining.”
The missing excavators brouhaha began when Professor Kwabena Frimpong-Boateng, the Minister for Environment, Science, Technology and Innovation and also Chairperson for the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining (IMCIM), disclosed recently that some of the excavators which were seized from illegal miners between 2017 and 2018 had vanished.
Some members of the Concerned Small Scale Miners Association subsequently revealed that they knew the whereabouts of the missing excavators, with claims that they were being used for galamsey in parts of the country.
The suspended NPP Central Regional Vice Chairman, Ekow Ewusi who was contracted by the government to cart excavators and other vehicles and pieces of equipment seized by Operation Vanguard to designated areas for safekeeping was then seen as a suspect to the case.
A letter sighted by Citi News revealed that Prof. Frimpong-Boateng wrote a letter to the Police CID to investigate him over his alleged involvement in the missing earth-moving equipment.
The Ghana Water Company Limited in the Ashanti Region has warned that its treatment plant at Odaso could soon be shut down if urgent measures are not taken to prevent illegal miners from polluting the Odaso River.
According to the Ashanti Regional water Quality Assurance Manager, Alhaji Adam Yakubu, the state of the Odaso treatment plant keeps worsening by the day as a result of galamsey activities in the area.
He further added that the Owabi treatment plant is also being threatened as a result of the activities of private encroachers.
He believes designating the area as a security zone will help resolve the matter.
“The catchment area is being encroached by private developers and as a result of the activities of these private developers,  the Owabi dam has silted to a level that the depth which used to be 22.5ft has now reduced to 6ft and if we don’t take time, the Owabi dam will be completely silted and that could have serious ramifications for the people of Kumasi,” Alhaji Yakubu said.
The Ghana Water Company Limited, a few months ago began rationing water supply to Sekondi-Takoradi Metropolis and the Effia-Kwesimintsim Municipality.
This was due to the onset of the dry season which has resulted in the inadequate water supply to the treatment plant at Inchaban.
The ongoing water rationing in the Western Region according to GWCL officials is likely to be prolonged.
According to them, this has drastically reduced their production volumes from a peak of 4.5 million gallons per day to 2.3 million gallons.
The Production Manager at the Western Regional office of GWCL, Vincent Opoku Ware Darko, in an interview with Citi News on the sidelines of a desilting exercise at the Daboase treatment plant a few days ago said the situation might worsen if measures are not adopted to curb the activities of illegal miners.
“The weather itself has an effect on the volume of water we can draw. 
We are in the dry season and in this season, we have a lot of evaporation because the weather is very dry so most of the water is taken out. 
And then, we have this galamsey issue where we have a lot of silt at the intake site and with this galamsey activity ongoing, it brings a lot of silt that they deposit at our intake. 
So we need to take these silts out so we can produce a lot of water,” he said.
Continuous illegal mining activities in the Wassa East District and beyond, which have resulted in the pollution the Pra River, is having a devastating effect on nearby communities.
The Shama District might not have galamsey activities ongoing along the Pra River, but the hidden operations of illegal gold miners around Daboase in the Wassa East District and beyond have resulted in the brownish colour of the Pra River, posing a danger to communities who depend on the river for water.
In the Shama District alone, there are over six communities along the River Pra which have been affected greatly by the pollution from galamsey, including the Bosomdo community.
These communities do not have any choice but to use the heavily polluted water from the Pra.
Citi News’ Akwasi Agyei Annim, who visited some of the communities, reported that these challenged communities are without health centres or even CHPS compounds.
One of the residents noted: “Because of the galamsey, we can’t do anything about [the Pra River] It is dirty and so bad. 
Sometimes you have to put alum inside before you can cook with it. 
It is the only source of water here. 
We use it to cook or wash dishes. 
We can’t bath with it or wash our clothes because it is salty. 
We are hoping the government will give us boreholes,” one woman pleaded.
The caretaker chief of Shama Bosomdo also added that: “Some people recently drank the water and had diarrhoea because of its poor quality. 
They cannot live without drinking water so they have no choice. 
We buy sachet water from Beposo, which at times we don’t get a steady supply of. 
So we plead with the government to come to the mercy of the Bosomdo and Krobo communities.”
Some fishermen complained about the negative impact the state of the river is having on their businesses.
“We don’t get enough catch when we go fishing because of the galamsey which has destroyed the water. 
Our nets only catch mud when we throw them in so our fishing business has been destroyed and we don’t know what to do now.”
The effects of the pollution of the Pra River, which has affected water supply, go beyond businesses to even education.
The Bosomdo D/A Primary School’s kindergarten is facing a severe shortage of teachers due to the water supply problem, while Primaries one to six, which under normal circumstances, must have a minimum of six teachers, have only four teachers including the headmaster as most teachers are unwilling to stay in the community.
Despite all these potential health risks associated with the use of polluted water from the Pra, the community, just like its neighbours, has no health centre to deal with disease outbreaks.
The Shama District Director of Health, Alfred Osei-Assibey, reacting to the concerns of communities along the river, revealed that skin infections and water-borne diseases, such as diarrhoea, are on the rise in the communities.
“In the last three years, skin diseases have increased dramatically. 
From the 5,000 cases we recorded in 2017, now we are recording over 10,000 cases of skin infections. 
The diarrhoea cases have also risen from 6th in 2017 and now its number 3,” he said.
The Shama District Assembly, which is responsible for the provision of quality water for its residents, says it is aware of water the problems.
The National Farmers and Fishermen Association has warned of the devastating effect on Ghana’s cocoa industry if measures are not put in place to end illegal mining.
The Association insisted that the practice of turning cocoa farms into mining concessions is unacceptable and must be stopped immediately.
President of the Association, Davis Narh Korboe speaking at a meeting with President Nana Akufo-Addo at the Jubilee House said the practice is unfavourable to the growth of the cocoa industry.
“For instance, cocoa farms are being cut down every now and then and what we are saying is that in as much as people want to make money from mining, then concession, we should look at prime cocoa and exclude them from these mining activities so that our farmers can really produce,” he said.
Some Ghanaians have already given up on the fight against galamsey saying that the fight has been lost.
The leader of the Special Team set up by the Inter-Ministerial Committee on illegal mining to monitor, investigate, evacuate and arrest persons involved in illegal mining, Nana Yaw Boadu, had earlier stated that the team will expeditiously investigate and make sure that everyone involved in illegal mining is brought to book as it probes the issue of the missing excavators.
According to him, the issue will be treated as very important and no cover-up will be entertained.
“Now what we plan on doing is that we are not going to entertain any cover-up again. 
We are going with a camera to the site. 
So, when we enter the site, the camera will monitor everything. 
We want Ghanaians to know whatever is happening at the mining site. 
So, when you are doing the right thing, Ghanaians will know. 
When you are not too, they will know,” he said.
The suspended New Patriotic Party (NPP) Central Regional Vice Chairman, Horace Ekow Ewusi was earlier arrested by the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) for his alleged involvement in the disappearance of some excavators seized from illegal miners in the country.
It will be recalled that at the peak of the fight against illegal mining between 2017 and 2018, about 500 earth-moving machines were seized by the Lands and Natural Resources Ministry.
The then sector Minister, John Peter Amewu who sanctioned the seizure directed them to be parked at the premises of the various Metropolitan, Municipal and District Assemblies (MMDAs).
Professor Kwabena Frimpong-Boateng, the Minister for Environment, Science, Technology & Innovation and also Chairperson for the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining (IMCIM), disclosed recently that most of the excavators that were seized from illegal miners had vanished.
The Concerned Small Scale Miners Association subsequently told the Minister that they knew where the missing excavators were.
Ekow Ewusi was contracted by the government to cart excavators and other vehicles and pieces of equipment seized by Operation Vanguard to designated areas for safekeeping.
The Convener of the Media Coalition Against Illegal Mining, Ken Ashigbey, has described the country’s justice delivery system as a weak link in relation to the fight against illegal mining.
His comments come in the wake of the arrest of some individuals over some missing excavators and other seized equipment from illegal miners in the country.
Speaking on the Point of View on Wednesday, he called on the government to bring all cases related to the missing excavators to the capital, Accra to be prosecuted so the utmost focus can be given to the case.
“It [the judiciary] has been one of the weakest links. 
Before this excavator issue came, it was the weakest link because the last time I heard the Operation Vanguard commander talking, he was talking about 5% convictions. All of us have been complaining about it. 
I remember the Media Coalition petitioned in the situation in which Chinese were arrested and then prosecuted in a circuit court in Tarkwa. And these are foreigners. 
So even before the law was amended, the sanction for them was not GH¢2,400 fines. 
It was more than that if you were just going to do fines.”
“So definitely the justice delivery system is a problem. 
I remember speaking to one of the Supreme Court judges and his suggestion was the fact that to really deal with this issue, let’s bring every case, these galamsey cases to Accra, have the focus on it and prosecute them here. Because once you get them into these places all kinds of things happen. 
You would not have the situation where goats and things will change hands,” he said.
Professor Kwabena Frimpong-Boateng, the Minister for Environment, Science, Technology and Innovation and also Chairperson for the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining (IMCIM), disclosed recently that some of the excavators which were seized from illegal miners between 2017 and 2018 had vanished.
Some members of the Concerned Small Scale Miners Association subsequently revealed that they knew the whereabouts of the missing excavators, with claims that they were being used for galamsey in parts of the country.
Ekow Ewusi who was contracted by the government to cart excavators and other vehicles and pieces of equipment seized by Operation Vanguard to designated areas for safekeeping was then seen as a suspect to the case.
A letter sighted by Citi News revealed that Prof. Frimpong-Boateng wrote a letter to the Police CID to investigate him over his alleged involvement in the missing earth-moving equipment.
Five other individuals who are believed to be accomplices of Mr. Ewusi were also arrested with him.
They are Frederick Ewusi, Joel Asamoah, Adam Haruna, Frank Gyan and John Arhin.
They have however been granted bail and expected to report to the Criminal Investigations Department later on Wednesday 5th February 2020.
Mr Ashigbey had earlier blasted the government for failing to devise stringent measures to ensure the safety of excavators that were seized by operatives of Operation Vanguard.
Speaking to Citi News‘ Umaru Sanda Amadu, Mr. Ashigbey wondered whether these seized excavators which were reportedly carted to designated areas for safekeeping were monitored by police officers.
Mr. Ashigbey indicated that these excavators would not have gone missing if the government had put in place the necessary measures to ensure their safety.
Meanwhile, he has also asked President  Akufo-Addo to dismiss Metropolitan, Municipal and District Chief Executives (MMDCEs) whose areas, small scale illegal mining activities continue to take place unabated.
According to him, this should be part of measures to deal with the upsurge of illegal mining in the country.
He indicated that beyond empowering state institutions, officials who are at the helm of affairs at the various districts must be held responsible for the menace.
A former Minerals Commission Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Dr. Tony Aubynn, says the fight against illegal mining in the last few years has clearly been lost.
“Have water bodies become clean? No. Have people stopped mining without the requisite licenses? No. It has even gone underground,” he remarked on Eyewitness News.
According to Dr. Aubynn, the metrics of success are clear when judging the compliance with the law and the state of the water bodies.
“You define all these things and the answer is obvious. We haven’t succeeded,” the former Minerals Commission’s boss stated.
Dr. Aubynn was on his way out of the Minerals Commission, in 2017, just as the fight against illegal mining was kicking into gear.
But at that time, he was confident that illegal small-scale mining, popularly known as galamsey, had stopped in the country following the intense media campaign and government action.
Under him, the government interdicted nine district mining officers of the Minerals Commission who were asked to proceed on indefinite leave, in May 2017.
The nine officers supervised mining activities in nine mining districts and were found to be negligent.
The Lands and Natural resources Minister at the time, John Peter Amewu, said they were negligent, as they allowed illegal mining to continue in their respective areas.
The Minerals Commission acts as the main promotional and regulatory body for the minerals sector in Ghana and is responsible for the regulation and management of the utilisation of the mineral resources of Ghana and the coordination and implementation of policies relating to mining.
Currently, the Ghana Water Company Limited (GWCL) has warned that it will be forced to halt the production and supply of water if illegal small scale mining is not stopped.
The Western Regional Chief Manager of GWCL, Francis Agyei-Boateng, said rationing of water around this time each year has become more acute because of illegal mining.
Most of Ghana’s freshwater bodies have been heavily polluted with thousands of acres of fertile farmlands also destroyed as a result of the illegal mining.
Ghana was recently scored as 41% and ranked 80th country with the highest Corruption Perception by Transparency International, a body which measures annually the level of corruption in about 180 countries worldwide. 
After reading portions of the report, I was stuck between smiling or crying, either way, it was not pleasant what I read. 
A move from the 40% mark of last year as a perception of corruption in Ghana continuous to grow. 
What this simply means is that the perception we have about corruption and its related activities in Ghana has not changed but getting worse. 
Now I guess you understand my dilemma.
I kept asking myself, are we doing better as a country or we are perhaps at our ‘saturation’ level when it comes to corruption as a country? 
Irrespective of how I pondered about these questions, I arrived at a simple answer, probably not the answer I wanted, but it was perhaps the closest truth I could tell my wandering mind- we are not winning the fight against corruption.
I have read about a profound statement by a revered statesman when it comes to corruption. 
Former President J.A Kufuor is reported to have said ‘‘Corruption is as old as Adam’’. 
A statement I tend to agree with except the connotation it carries. 
Perhaps not what he meant to communicate as he will later clarify, but the baggage it conveys leaves me with no option than to steer away from it completely.  
Corruption has stayed with us from generations and its impact on our lives have been dire.
Corruption at any level should not be tolerated but that seems not the case in the system we live in. 
Greasing of palms and handing down cash or kind has gained notoriety in our politics, our public and civil services, our judiciary, our education system and virtually every aspect of our lives. 
The consequences of widespread corruption have a horrible effect on our country’s development. Ghana’s developmental agenda has delayed partly because of corruption over the years. 
Imagine monies meant for development syphoned by greedy public and civil servants through contracts and as a result, a community lacking basic social amenity such as water. 
Consider corruption activities bleeding our country of taxes at our Ministries, Agencies and Departments meant for development?
It is therefore not surprising the premium that is placed on the fight against corruption by the various political parties in their campaigns over the years, except to say that, they have failed abysmally at dealing with the canker. 
Government after the other since 1992 has promised to deal ruthlessly with corruption but the result after the promises leave much to be desired.
The setting-up of the Office of Special Prosecutor (OSP) by the NPP led Government was considered as a game-changer in the nation’s fight against the menace, but three years into its existence, little has been seen. 
The man put in charge of that office was an honourable, effective and efficient man, but that perhaps was when he was a private citizen. 
Maybe we should have left him as a ‘citizen vigilante’, by now we will have recovered the ‘Woyome’ money and many others. 
This by no means seeks to ridicule the office, maybe we will be reaping the fruits soon, but three years of ‘no show’, leaves me worried.
Perhaps the political chess game we play with the fight against bribery, exploitation and sleaze in our political and public services has not helped. 
Corruption fight is a non-negotiable matter in the interest of our country.  
But this is not an act only politicians and people in high authority engage in, private citizens and individuals are equal culprits when it comes to corruption. 
Remember, ‘the giver and the taker’ are both guilty? 
We have perhaps become numb as a people to the corruption that we are willing to pay each time even without request. 
Our national consciousness about corruption fight seem narrow and therefore need to be deepened. 
Our understanding of what constitutes corruption is blurred hence our pride in the act.
Lest I deviate, the war against illegal mining is rearing its ugly head again, our water bodies are turning brown, water treatment plants are about shutting down.
The ongoing illegal mining activities, popularly known as ‘galamsey’ affirms my position that maybe we have become numb to corruption or we are willing to be complicit in it. 
The long-held notion that ‘when the last tree dies, the last man dies’ has perhaps become an over flogged cliché that doesn’t strike to the core anymore. 
The media coalition against ‘galamsey’ along with government, fought the canker to some extent but the battle is far from over. 
The fight against ‘galamsey’ is imperative that needs no apathetic approach. 
We are losing our forest cover and losing our water bodies as well.
A recent publication about water shortage hitting part of the central region, Cape Coast to be specific struck me to the core. 
The publication suggests that the activities of illegal mining are leaving the water treatment plant in the region with no option than to ration water which in the long run will lead to a total shut-down. 
According to a report by JoyNews Central regional correspondent, ‘‘the Sekyere-Hermang water treatment plant is chocked with turgid water’’. 
I ask then, are we losing the fight against ‘galamsey’ too? I hope not. 
Because, ‘when the last water dries, the last man dies too’. 
It is perhaps overstretched, but I likened the effect of galamsey on corruption. 
They are both cancerous tissues that need to be dealt with, but we seem to be losing both fights.
President Akufo-Addo led administration ‘tried’ fighting the menace but it seems ‘galamsey’ is rather fighting it. 
Bodies such as GalamStop, Inter-Ministerial body, and other operations were launched to fight against corruption but none so far appears to have helped completely. 
The approach helped to some extent but our water bodies are still at the mercies of the cruel individuals who are bent on making money at the expense of the national good.

Some of the bodies set up to fight ‘galamsey’ have allegedly degenerated into extortion bodies, taking kickbacks and bribes at the expense of our country. 
While citizens are complicit in these acts as their role in fronting for foreign nationals smacks in the face for good citizenship, these multi-million ventures are sponsored by people in authority and well to do in society- people who have no good intentions for Ghana.
Many other approaches adopted to fight the canker continue to leave me in the dark as they have not been fruitful to the level worthy of praise. 
The adoption of technology in the fight was announced in 2018 but we seem to have gone to bed after the declaration just like others. While we have good intention is solving our problems, we never follow through to the needed result.
Lands and Natural Resources Minister, Mr Asomah-Cheremeh stated in September 2019 that, the government has achieved 85% success rate in the fight against ‘‘galamsey’’. 
While no evidence was given to substantiate this claim, I have no reason to doubt except to say, our rivers are still brown, indicating there is ‘galamsey’ still on-going. 
The Mineral and Mining Law has been amended with 15years minimum and 25years Maximum sentences, as well as 10,000 and 15,000 penalty units to ensure stiffer punishment but the recalcitrant are still doing it, perhaps with a planned cabal.
At the Meet-The-Press by the Lands and Natural resource minister, mining contributed $1.3 billion in 2019 as revenue, creating over 26,425 jobs by the large scale mining firms. 
The potential at the mining industry remains a viable one which when harnessed properly and through the legal channel will add a substantial amount to our revenue basket. But at no point should ‘galamsey’ be regularized since the result on the nation will be a disaster.
The fight against the twin-canker ‘corruption and galamsey’, that continue to obliterate our nation, need a concerted effort from us all. 
The importance of water and forest reserve can never be underestimated and thus should be guarded with all our might. 
Galamsey and Corruption have an awful consequence on our country’s development and the earlier we deal with them with all seriousness, the best it will be for generations yet unborn.
Dealing with corruption should be high on the agenda, teaching and practising integrity with rewards should be promoted and be seen at the fore-front in our education and religious institutions. 
Appropriate punishment should be encouraged and applied impartially. 
While the wheel of justice perhaps grinds slowly, fast-tracking cases of illegal mining, prosecuting and securing convictions could serve as a deterrent to the many who may want to engage in the illegal act.
We shouldn’t continue to sit detached and watch our natural resource blessings turn into a curse. 
Water is life, let’s not sit on the fence about the effect of ‘galamsey.’
God bless our homeland and make her great and strong.
It appears the about 500 excavators seized during the intense crusade against illegal small scale mining between 2017 and 2018, are not missing as alleged by the Chairman of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining, Professor Frimpong Boateng.
Members of the Concerned Small Scale Miners Union of Ghana say they know the whereabouts of the earth moving machines.
President of the Union, Richard Kojo Peprah speaking to Citi News said some of their members traced their excavators to various illegal mining sites in parts of the country.
“We were able to find some of these machines in Tamale. Some of these machines had tracking devices. 
So we are able to trace them.
When they take the machine in the Ashanti region then, they send it to the Northern region. 
They are engaged in one activity or the other. 
Some are even engaged in galamsey”.
The chairman of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining, Professor Frimpong Boateng disclosed last week that most of the seized excavators are missing.
The minister is quoted as saying that “though the excavators were seized and taken to the district assemblies, the heavy-duty machines disappeared later from the premises of the assemblies”.
The Media Coalition against Illegal Mining and Occupy Ghana subsequently demanded from government explanations for the supposed disappearance of some excavators.
According to the two organisations, the authorities responsible for ensuring sanity within the mining sector have failed to enforce the law.
Convenor of the Media Coalition against Galamsey, Ken Ashigbey said persons behind the disappearance should be named to ensure they are sanctioned.
“If we don’t ensure that the laws that we have, are working, then the impunity will continue. 
How come some of the excavators cannot be found? 
It is also important that we know which public officers or individuals are responsible for this. 
That is something that we need answers for,” he said.
The Inter-Ministerial Committee on illegal mining was set up to oversee the implementation of the ban on all forms of small scale mining and also see to the vetting of small scale miners.
It was commissioned in March 2017 by President Akufo-Addo to reform artisanal and small-scale mining in the country. 
It’s chaired by the minister of Environment, Science, Technology, and Innovation (MESTI), Professor Frimpong Boateng.
The Forestry Commission says unseen powerful persons are behind the resurgence of illegal mining in some forest reserves in the country.
One of such affected forest is the Bekwai Forest Reserve in the Amansie Central District in the Ashanti Region, where illegal miners have destroyed about seven hectares of land.
The Bekwai District Manager of the Forestry Commission, Rexford Twum-Damoah, told journalists that the situation is getting out of hand as the illegal miners sometimes enjoy military protection.
He said the illegal miners often refer to the powerful people as their bosses hence carry out the destructive activity with impunity.
Many forests across the country have been under threat of the activities of illegal miners who destroy tree cover and pollute water bodies in their quest to mine gold.
Citi News‘ Jonas Nyabor in a report on how illegal mining is wiping out Ghana’s forests in 2019 found that several hectares of fertile forestlands across the country have been destroyed due to the activities of illegal miners, especially within the last decade.
The Desiri, Kutukrom, Kobro, Oda, Jimira, Atewa, and Tano-Offin forests in the Ahafo, Western, Ashanti, Eastern regions have all suffered from the illegality.
Many rivers, including the Birim River in the Eastern Region and other water bodies, that take their source from these forests have as a result been left heavily polluted, depriving residents in nearby communities of a source of freshwater and putting at risk the lives of over five million other people in major cities in the south whose potable water are sourced from the forests.
In the report, it was found that although the forestry commission makes some arrest and ensures prosecution of persons who mine illegally in forest reserves, some of those who cause the worst destructions are able to escape prosecution or sometimes arrest due to the influence of powerful people in society.
An Accra High Court says Nii Amanoo Dodoo, the Receiver of the now-defunct uniBank, can testify in the trial of Dr. Kwabena Duffuor, founder of the bank, and other officials.
Mr. Dodoo was to be called as the State’s first witness in the trial, but lawyers for Dr. Duffuor prayed the court not to allow Mr. Dodoo to testify.
Dr. Duffuor’s lawyers argued that the Receiver had breached sections of the Banks and Specialized Deposit Act, 2016 hence their objection.
According to the lawyers, the presence of the first Prosecution Witness, Nii Dodoo does not qualify him to testify because he was appointed Receiver of uniBank after being a partner of KPMG which audited the accounts of the bank.
Mrs Yvonne Attakora Obuobisa, the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), opposed the objection.
She admitted that Nii Dodoo was previously a partner of KPMG, indicating that KPMG did not hold any shares in uniBank neither did it hold any key position in uniBank.
The Director of Public Prosecution argued that KPMG had not violated any rule or statute and that the appointment of Nii Dodoo was from a private sector and was legitimate.
“The fact that he has worked with KPMG does not prevent Bank of Ghana from appointing him as receiver of uniBank,” he added.
Mrs Obuobisa said his appointment as the Receiver was lawful, urging the court to dismiss the objection since the witness met the requirement for qualifying to testify.
Justice Bright Mensah, Court of Appeal Judge, sitting as an additional High Court Judge, said, ” I uphold the argument of DPP that the appointment was not illegal or void.
The appointment of Nii Dodoo by BoG is valid.”
He said Section 59 of the Evidence Act explained who was not qualified to testify, which included someone who was incapable of coherent expression so as to be understood, directly or through interpretation by another person who could understand that person; or incapable of understanding the duty of a witness to tell the truth.
Justice Mensah said he held the view that, the witness was qualified to testify and had personal knowledge of what was at hand.
“The appointment of the Receiver was valid,” he added.
He, however, said the Counsel for A1, A2 and A4 had impressed upon the court that, the evidence, he would give would be tainted with illegality because he was incapable to testify on those reports.
The Judge said that the argument was simplistic and that it could not be said that the method would be tainted with invalidity.
“The challenge of his validity should be a civil matter and that the witness is a competent and comparable witness,” the Court of Appeal Judge said.
The court, therefore asked the Receiver to take the oath and proceed to testify.
Dr. Kwabena Duffuor and 8 others are facing a total of 71 charges for various roles they played in what led to the collapse of some financial institutions.
The Ghana Association of Bankers says it largely welcomes the Bank of Ghana’s directives to banks and Specialized Deposit-Taking institutions to stop a number of fees and charges slapped on customers for some services rendered.
The Association is however unhappy with the instruction for the financial institutions to stop deducting maintenance charges on savings accounts.
Speaking to Citi News, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Association, John Awuah, justified the charges on savings accounts, explaining that some savings accounts are technically operated like current accounts.
“The target is not even the banking industry. It has to do with other participants in the financial system. 
It is, for this reason, we support largely, not entirely, the cancellation of some charges. 
We need to treat the customers fairly.”‘
“Savings accounts are not meant for daily withdrawals. 
But, we see people link their MoMo wallets to it, use ATMs for withdrawing money from the account, etc. 
This makes the accounts lose their character. What the banks are saying is that, in cases where customers use accounts designated for investments as current accounts, they are to be levied accordingly. 
To that extent, we have a bit of a challenge,” he explained.
The Central Bank in a statement on Friday, June 18, 2021, directed banks and Specialized Deposit-Taking institutions to desist from implementing seven different fees and charges, and also stop engaging in some practices that do not auger well for the banking sector.
The fees and charges, and practices which are identified by the central bank as unfair include, Credit Insurance Premium Overcharges, Maintenance Fees on Savings Account, among others, Over the Counter (OTC) Withdrawal Charges as well as the requirement by some banks for borrowers to make them part owners in some assets they present for use as collateral for loans.
A Banking consultant, Dr. Akwasi Atuahene, has urged the Bank of Ghana to take action against financial institutions that fail to implement these new directives.
The Bank of Ghana (BoG) on Friday, June 18, 2021, directed Banks and Specialized Deposit-Taking institutions in the country to stop charging unfair fees and charges.
Among other things, the central bank also ordered the financial institutions to stop unlawful practices that do not auger well for the financial sector.
“These practices are deemed to be unfair, inappropriate, and detrimental to the financial inclusion agenda and the protection of customers’ interest,” a statement from the BoG said.
The unfair charges, according to the Bank of Ghana, include, credit insurance premium overcharges, maintenance fees on savings accounts, over the counter withdrawal charges, among others.
Below are the seven unfair charges and fees, and the clear directives the BoG gave on them going forward:
As part of credit underwriting policies, a number of banks and SDIs require borrowers to hold credit insurance against eventualities such as death, permanent disability, and termination of employment. 
While the Bank of Ghana acknowledges the importance of this practice as a loss mitigating norm in credit management, a number of banks and SDIs take advantage, to overprice the premiums charged to customers, resulting in the increased cost of borrowing. 
Banks and SDIs are directed to desist from premium overcharges and to adhere strictly to the following:
Banks and SDIs that opt to use their pre-determined insurance companies to underwrite borrowers’ loans, shall apply the same premium charged by the underwriting company to borrowers.
Banks and SDIs are not permitted to retain insurance premiums collected from customers with the intention of implementing an internal insurance policy.
This excludes commissions for Bancassurance arrangements.
The application of “Account Maintenance Fees” by banks and SDIs on savings accounts inhibits deposit mobilisation and discourages the use of banking systems by the public. 
Bank of Ghana has noted that the application of such fees has driven a number of savings accounts into debt and, in so doing, eroded the deposits of vulnerable depositors who would generally expect their savings accounts to earn interest.
This practice is detrimental to financial inclusion and negates the gains of the financial literacy programmes geared towards promoting personal savings.
Bank of Ghana notes that some banks and SDIs impose penal charges on customers who withdraw their own funds from banking halls of affected banks and SDIs. 
The reason commonly attributed to this practice is to encourage customers to use digital platforms provided by the banks/SDIs for such withdrawals, in order to decongest banking halls. 
These digital platforms are however not offered for free.
While the Bank of Ghana acknowledges the support of banks and SDIs in the digitization agenda, this action deters some customers, especially those who are averse to the use of digital platforms, from opening and operating accounts. 
The practice also negatively affects the financial inclusion drive of the Bank of Ghana.
Banks and SDIs are directed to desist from levying penalties on customers who withdraw their own funds below certain thresholds from the banking halls.
In addition, banks and SDIs shall not levy penalties against customers who request account balances within banking halls.
Bank of Ghana notes that some banks and SDIs require borrowers who secure credit facilities with movable assets, to transfer ownership of such assets into the joint names of the borrower and the bank or SDI involved. 
In addition, borrowers are made to bear the cost associated with the transfer prior to loan approval and after the settlement of the loan.
This practice of some banks and SDIs is contrary to section 7 of the Borrowers and Lenders Act, 2020 (Act 1052) which does not permit a security interest to operate as a transfer of title from a borrower to a lender. 
The practice further denies borrowers the opportunity to secure multiple loans with single collateral duly registered in the name of the respective borrowers.
Banks and SDIs are barred from engaging in the practice of changing ownership of collaterals presented by borrowers to secure credit facilities from the borrower to the bank or SDI.
The Bank of Ghana has observed a practice among some banks and SDIs, where penal interest rates levied against defaulting loan customers, are made to accrue interest. 
In effect, interest is computed on penal charges in addition to interest on the outstanding loan amount.
This practice results in high outstanding loan balances which customers are unable to pay, resulting in high non-performing loans.
The practice is detrimental to the credit market. 
Banks and SDIs are directed to desist from the application of interest on penal charges.
Additionally, penal charges shall only be applied on the amount of the delayed interest or principal payment and not on the total outstanding loan amount in accordance with section 55(3) of the Borrowers and Lenders Act, 2020 (Act 1052).
In accordance with section 55 (2) of the Borrowers and Lenders Act, 2020 (Act 1052), banks and SDIs shall impose on a borrower an interest rate that is calculated on an Annual Basis only in all credit agreements.
Consequently, banks and SDIs are directed to desist from the quotation of monthly interest rates on all credit facilities and associated fees.
In addition to the interest rate, banks and SDIs are directed to disclose the Annualized Percentage Rate (APR) related to every credit facility in accordance with the Disclosure and Product Transparency Rules for Credit Products and Services.
Bank of Ghana has observed with concern, the lack of compliance with the requirement of banks and SDIs to obtain full personal details (name, address, ID, and telephone numbers) of a person who makes a deposit into or withdrawal from an account on behalf of another person.
Deposit slips of some banks and SDIs do not make provision for depositors’ signatures. 
This anomaly makes it possible for third parties to deposit into the customer’s account under the guise that the deposit was made by the customer, by simply writing “self” in the column for the depositor’s name.
Telecommunication company, MTN, has handed over a 300,000 Cedi blood bank facility to the management of the Obstetrics and Gynaecology Unit at the Cape Coast Teaching Hospital, with a call on Ghanaians to support the work of the National Blood Service by donating blood.
The handing-over ceremony coincided with the World Blood Donors day celebration.
The Chief Corporate Services Executive of MTN Ghana, Samuel Koranteng, said, “the provision of the facility is a unique opportunity to leave a lasting legacy for our blood donation exercises over the years. 
The construction of this facility, therefore, serves as a good symbolism of our contribution to the collection and storage of blood in Ghana”.
“We are even more excited because we are making a significant contribution to the health needs of the people of this country”, he emphasized.
Samuel Koranteng maintained that the significance of blood in healthcare delivery, especially in emergency cases and in cases of obstetric hemorrhage, cannot be overemphasized.
“… Because of the need, the MTN Foundation instituted an annual blood donation exercise which has over the years yielded 20,036 pints of blood”.
The Chief Executive Officer of the Cape Coast Teaching Hospital, Dr Eric Kofi Ngyedu, disclosed that the hospital recorded twenty-six maternal deaths in 2020.
“Though a reduction from the previous year’s figure of twenty-eight, the situation is still extremely unacceptable”.
Dr. Ngyedu thanked MTN for the kind gesture “to support the hospital to improve maternal health outcomes”.
Many Ghanaians were hopeful when the government introduced the One District One Factory (1D1F) initiative, which is aimed at building strong value-addition-oriented companies as well as reducing the unemployment rate in the country.
Although some private companies have received some forms of support under the initiative, many have not received the support needed as access to funds has been a challenge.
In a bid to address this, the Managing Director of the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB), Dr. John Kofi Mensah, says the bank is offering support to Ghanaians who are into agribusiness by financing out-grower schemes under the one district one factory initiative.
“One district one factory was brought by our president, and we are trying to move it to another level as an agricultural focused bank to finance out-grower schemes for the one district one factory initiative. 
That is, the factories and the industries that are being established, we want to fund the input base, and most of them are agro. 
Let’s take, for example, the Ekumfi Juice factory in the Central Region which was commissioned by the President, ADB is financing the input base, that is pineapple. 
We have already pumped thirty million cedis into an out-grower scheme for farmers in pineapple production. 
Another one I can talk of is the Tomato processing factory at Berekum in the Bono Region.”
“We are financing an out-grower scheme for tomato production. 
So any Ghanaian who wants to go into agro-based processing should be sure that when you come to talk to ADB, we will support you to build a raw material base by financing an out-grower scheme so, that, your factory will continue producing without any break. 
We are concentrating on Ghana production in terms of the raw materials and most of them are agro-based.”
Another industry in Ghana that has been struggling over the years is the poultry industry.
The Managing Director of ADB, Dr. John Kofi Mensah says in order for local poultry farmers to be globally competitive, his outfit has introduced a broiler value chain scheme where various players are given financial support with favourable interest rates.
“We have also introduced a broiler value chain scheme where we finance value chains from the hatchery to production, processing to marketing. 
We have identified interest rate as an issue, and we are promising our value chain customers that we are going to see to the further suppression of the interest rate”.
The Managing Director made these comments on the sidelines of a dinner with some selected customers of the bank in Kumasi.
The Board Chair of ADB, Alex Bernasko said, although COVID-19 hit various institutions hard, ADB was able to make a profit of 65 million Ghana Cedis in 2020, and even introduced flexible terms to suit its customers.
The Board Chair added that the bank is set to introduce a three-year strategic plan to make it much stronger.
“When the COVID-19 pandemic surfaced, we came up with a few strategies to lighten the burden of our customers. 
In fact, one of them was to introduce a moratorium on existing facilities. 
Apart from that, some of them were given restructured payment schedule to enable them enough time to pay. 
You will also appreciate that some of the charges have been reduced and all that for the benefit of the customers to make life less worrisome for them. But generally, ADB has got a three-year strategic plan which is intended to improve its structures and systems and way of doing work”.
The board members of ADB as part of their visit to the Ashanti Region paid a courtesy call on the Asantehene, Otumfuo Osei Tutu II.
The Asantehene commended the bank for its focus on agriculture and urged it to continue to offer support to various businesses.
The Minister for Works and Housing, Francis Asenso Boakye, has disclosed that the government is partnering with the World Bank to invest $200 million in measures to tackle flooding in Accra.
According to him, this forms part of the government’s vision to end the perennial flooding in the capital city.
Mr. Asenso Boakye made this known in a press statement issued on Thursday, June 3, 2021, in commemoration of the June 3 disaster in 2015, which claimed 152 lives and injured many others.
“In line with this, the government has collaborated with the World Bank to invest $200 million to, among others, implement the Greater Accra Resilient and Integrated Development (GARID) project.”
The Minister also added that the Akufo-Addo government will also “intensify efforts aimed at finding lasting solutions to the perennial flooding in Accra and other parts of the country.”
Meanwhile, Mr. Asenso Boakye also charged the citizenry to aid the government in this endeavour.
According to him, the government alone cannot end the menace if citizens do not also change their attitudes.
The project is meant to mitigate flood risks and address the solid waste management challenges in the Odaw Drainage Basin.
It also involves the reconstruction of some bridges to remove identified impediments to the flow of water in the basin when it rains, and the construction of detention ponds upstream of the Odaw Basin, to hold large volumes of water that would otherwise lead to flooding, especially around Kwame Nkrumah Circle.
This project includes extensive dredging of the Odaw River and Korle Lagoon.
The Western Regional Minister, Kwabena Okyere Darko Mensah, has assured the wife and family of the late Charles Kwakye Agyako that he is committed to ensuring the arrest and prosecution of all the persons involved in his killing.
The Minister spoke to Citi News on Friday after visiting Monica Nda, the wife of the deceased in Takoradi.
Mr. Agyako was shot dead on Monday by suspected robbers in Takoradi while in the company of the wife.
According to reports, they were in town to shop when they were attacked.
The Regional Minister visited the deceased’s family to commiserate with them after Mrs. Agyako, who sustained some injuries from the attack, returned home from the hospital.
“We are very determined as a Regional Security Council to prosecute the matter till we reach finality. 
Two of the suspects have been arrested. 
Unfortunately, one is dead. 
We are interrogating the other, and we know that very soon, we will be able to get the other accomplices,” the Minister said.
Mrs Agyako lamented the conduct of onlookers who did not come to her aid, even after the robbers had bolted.
While expressing surprise at the development, the Minister assured the public of adequate security measures in the region to minimize crime.
“One of the difficulties was the wife explaining that even after the armed robbers had left the crime scene, she was not getting anyone to help her take her husband to the hospital. 
I believe that this is not a good attitude. 
One of the things we will do is to put in place additional security measures to ensure that, this does not happen again. 
We will not rest until we get to the bottom of the matter,” he told Citi News.
A former Director-General of the Ghana Health Service (GHS), Professor Agyeman Badu Akosa has taken on the government for failing to fix the deplorable Takoradi to Tarkwa road.
Professor Badu Akosa who was speaking after travelling on the 53-kilometre road from Takoradi to Tarkwa in the Western Region to mark this year’s World Health Day said the government owes the mining communities answers for the poor road after all the royalties it has collected.
“The road from Takoradi to Tarkwa is diabolical. 
For a town that provides so much for Ghana’s GDP, it is diabolical, It should be first-class, two-lane, asphalt. 
[I think] Anglogold and Goldfields, have something to tell the government. 
They just cannot take dividends and not provide you with service,” he said.
There have been several protests by residents in the Western Region over their deplorable roads.
The recent one was staged by residents of the Tarkwa Nsuaem municipality who argued that more of the gains from mineral revenue should be channelled into infrastructure.
The Tarkwa Nsuaem Municipality is one of the leading producers of gold in Ghana.
Heavy-duty vehicles transporting cocoa, bauxite and Manganese for export to the Takoradi Harbor also use the road, putting pressure on that stretch of road.
In September 2018, some Tarkwa chiefs led residents to block roads in protest bringing economic activities to a halt.
The angry residents demonstrating said the government has taken them for granted and also petitioned the Municipal Chief Executive for the area on the matter.
Human rights advocacy civil society body, Amnesty International has questioned the death penalty sentence dished out to the two convicted persons in the matter of the kidnapping and murder of the Takoradi girls.
The two, Samuel Udeotuk Wills and John Orji, were found guilty by a Sekondi High Court on charges of conspiracy to murder and murder.
But speaking to Citi News, the Campaign Coordinator of Amnesty International Ghana, Samuel Abotsey questioned the country’s continuous reliance on the death penalty when it has actually never been executed since 1992.
“In Ghana, the law still permits the judges to make that pronouncement and so we cannot force the judges or the country but we believe that the continuous use of the death penalty is not the way to go because evidence has shown that… there could be mistakes in evidence gathering, there could be mistakes in the investigation, the wrong people could be charged.”
Mr. Abotsey also added that it will be better to rely on life sentences or fixed-term sentences in case of fresh evidence affecting cases.
“There have been people that have been sentenced to death, some actually killed but fresh evidence showed that they were not guilty of that crime. 
So, our belief is that it is better for us to keep the people on the life sentence or a fixed-term sentence so that if there is fresh evidence emerging tomorrow, these people can be exonerated,” he stated.
The two convicts have a right of appeal within a 30-day window.
The President of the Catholic Bishops Conference, Most Rev Philip Naameh, strongly believes the Nana Addo-led government has failed Ghanaians.
He claims the country is not safe after alleging that the security services are at the beck and call of the government.
“It is a great pity that people who are trained, paid to protect Ghanaians have ended up in the name of loyalty to a particular party in government and are shooting and killing Ghanaians. 
it is not only condemnable but also criminal and must be investigated and the perpetrators duly punished,“ he said.
Three persons lost their lives under tragic circumstances at Ejura in the Ejura Sekyedumase District of the Ashanti Region a few days ago.
The trio died in the space of 48 hours with youth activist Ibrahim Mohammed, 45, also known as Macho Kaaka dying on June 28 from injuries he sustained in an attack a day before.
The killing of Mohammed sparked protests on Tuesday, June 29, in Ejura leading to clashes between some residents and security personnel which resulted in the death of two persons (Abdul Nasir Yussif and Muntala Mohammed) who were among six persons who were shot in the skirmish.
Most Rev Philip Naameh in an interview on NEAT FM’s "Ghana Montie" morning show said the Catholic Bishops Conference strongly condemns the shooting in Ejura.
“Situation there is very distasteful,” he noted.
Meanwhile, the Interior Ministry has constituted a three-member committee to investigate the incident.
This follows a directive by President Akufo-Addo, calling for a public inquiry to be conducted into the circumstances surrounding the Ejura killing incident on Tuesday, which also left four persons severely injured.
The committee members include George Kingsley Koomson, Justice of the Court of Appeal as Chairman, Security Expert, Dr Vladimir Antwi Danso and Juliet Amoah, Executive Director of Penplusbyte, a civil society organisation.
Marie Louis Simmons, a principal state attorney will be the secretary of the committee.
The committee is expected to investigate and recommend sanctions for persons found culpable by 9 July 2021. 
A group of concerned residents of McCarthy Hill in the Weija-Gbawe Municipality in Accra have petitioned the Parliamentary Select Committee on Environment, Science and Technology to intervene for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to grant permit for the continuation of work on the construction of the Empire Cement Factory at McCarthy Hill.
The residents made the appeal in a petition presented to the Committee on Environment, Science and Technology at Parliament House today.
Mr Andrews Agbayizah a concerned resident told Peace FM News that the Factory being constructed is a fulfilment of the President's flagship Program of One District One Factory and will create jobs for about thirteen thousand (13,000) youth in the area and other socio-economic benefits that will be derived from its operation.
According to the residents, the siting of the Factory will also open up the Weija- Gbawe Municipality.
His Royal Majesty, King Tackie Teiko Tsuru II, has noticed with delight, the resolute and firmness of the Regional Minister, Honourable Henry Quartey, in the decongestion exercise in Accra. Honourable Minister, your combination of tenacity, tact and diplomacy in ensuring sanity in Accra needs much support and appreciation from all. 
I want to assure you that all well-meaning Ga -Dangmes rally solidly behind you. 
Continue with the good work unperturbed. 
You have our unflinching support.
A call to national duty is a call to serve in the interest of the people. 
Sometimes even the same people you serve bring obstacles on your way for various reasons but do not let them pull you back and distract you.
Be assured that what is right is always right. 
We appreciate your efforts and we are ready to assist you in any way to ensure the desired result of bringing sanity and beautification of Accra are achieved.
On my behalf and on behalf of the good people of Ga-Dangme we say AYEKOO TSULOR KPAKPA. 
We are very proud of you, a great son of Ga-Dangme and a servant of the people.
May the blessings of the Good Lord, the creator of Heaven and earth and the blessings of our forefathers empower and protect you always.
President Akufo-Addo believes in Ghana and the great potentials of the Ghanaian Youth. 
That is why almost 70% of his policies and programmes are Youth driven.
Free SHS, 1D1F, Digitalization, Free TVET, Planting for food and jobs, Restoration of Allowances for Teachers and Nursing Trainees, Reviving Scholarship Secretariat, NABCO, Youth in Afforestation, NEIP, Amplified Projects(Amplified Business, Amplified Success & Amplified Social), Presidential Pitch, an initiative for young entrepreneurs and recently Ghana Entreprises Agency.
President Akufo-Addo's Government is the only Government since independence that has been able to champion youth-driven policies and programmes in the areas of Empowerment, Employment, Mentorship, Training and Development.
The call to Fix the Country is in the right direction but certainly the Callers must understand and appreciate the fact that, President Akufo-Addo is on course fixing the errors, mess and waste of previous Governments, and at the same time gradually transforming the economy to the appreciable satisfaction of Ghanaians.
Let's also individually and collectively fix our bad attitudes, needless sabotage, and be innovative in our thinking and ways of doing things.
Most of the youth are using the internet positively to contribute to the Akufo-Addo's agenda of digitalization, whereas others are using the internet to watch pornograhy(masturbate alongside), posting and watching nude movies/photos, talking meaningless on social media platforms etc.
Yes, it is the responsibility of the Government to create the enabling environment for the citizens to actualize their respective potentials and creativity. 
Certainly, President Akufo-Addo has DELIVERED on this by creating the enabling environment for the youth to grow and participate in the economy, for example, the Digitalization Concept.
It is up to the Youth to stop wasting their precious time on needles NDC politically sponsored confrontations, demonstrations etc. under the pretense of FixTheCountry, and focus on taking advantage of Akufo-Addo's youthful policies and programmes so that collectively all of us can contribute meaningful in fixing our Country together.
President Akufo-Addo is on the right path fixing the Country, and certainly, Ghana shall continue to be fixed by subsequent Governments until we reach the optimal standards of socioeconomic development and financial transformation.
I would like to urge the Callers of FixTheCountry to demand from the NDC, the policies and programmes that Rawlings-Mills-Mahama implemented that were youth driven as well as towards fixing the Country for the last 27 years that they were in charge of this Country? 
The Minister of Food and Agriculture, Dr Owusu Afriyie Akoto, has asked residents of the Greater Accra Region to observe the period between the ban on drumming and the celebration of the Homowo festival by taking to farming to help the region produce enough food.
The minister, who made the appeal at the launch of the, "Let's make agriculture flourish in Greater Accra" campaign at the Military Academy and Training Schools in Accra last Friday, said the campaign, which was also known as "Homowo goes green," was aimed at reviving the message and meaning of the ban and the celebration in line with government's Planting for Food and Jobs (PFJ) programme.
He noted that the history of the Ga Homowo festival was about ensuring food security and as such, the ban on drumming and noise-making was to enable the chiefs, priests and people of the region forgo merry making and concentrate on clearing their farms and get it ready for planting.
The minister said the meaning and significance of the ban, as well as names of certain suburbs of Accra, such as Abelenkpe (maize is last) emphasised that Accra in general used to be a food basket which needed a revival.
According to him, the campaign would be extended to all important festivals nationwide.
“Food farming is an honourable and lucrative business which should not be left to only a section of the people,” the minister said.
Touching on the Planting for Food and Jobs (PFJ) programme, Dr Akoto said the programme had not only saved the country from hunger, but had enabled the export of food to neighbouring countries in return for foreign exchange.
He revealed that the government's flagship programme, which started with 200,000 smallholder farmers barely four years ago, was now targeting some two million farmers this year and urged more farmers to join the PFJ.
"I urge more farmers to register in order to benefit from the subsidised prices of inputs and also increase harvest," Dr Akoto added.
The minister said beyond the Homowo goes green, the Greater Accra department of agriculture would support households, especially women and the youth, to produce and process selected vegetables to improve household nutrition.
“The project which is expected to cover all 29 districts of the region will focus on target crops, including vegetables such as tomatoes, pepper, onion, okro, cabbage and cereals such as maize and rice,” he explained.
Dr Akoto explained that series of training, home and farm visits would be undertaken by officials of the programme to the beneficiary farmers and farms to ensure that they applied good agronomic practices in their fields to produce quality crops.
The minister, who encouraged homeowners to take to backyard gardens, used the occasion to plant some maize seeds on parcels of land released to a group of farmers by the MATS.
Present at the ceremony were the Teshie Mantse, Nii Ashitey Akomfra who also planted some maize seeds; the Accra Regional Director of Agriculture,  Mr Eric Asameni; the Municipal Coordinating Director of the Ledzokuku Municipal Assembly, Ing John Tsikor; Commandant of the MATS, Maj General Charles Awity and other dignitaries.
Homowo is a harvest festival celebrated by the Ga people.
The festival, which is celebrated in the month of August, is preceded by the planting of maize, referred to as Nmaa dum, which will be used in preparing Kpokpoi or Kpekple to celebrate the festival.
During this period, there is a ban on drumming and noise-making in Central Accra, the ban is enforced for six weeks and lifted to prepare for harvesting and feasting during the celebration.
The festival is celebrated in remembrance of the famine that once happened in the history of the Ga people.
Barely a month after its recommendation, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has removed Ghana from the list of high risk, third world countries with strategic deficiencies in anti-money laundering and countering of terrorism financing.
This follows a review by FATF in February.
The European Union (EU) had hinted of removing Ghana from the list after President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo met the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, in Brussels last month.
Ghana to be removed from EU money laundering list after Akufo-Addo’s intervention
The EU had commended Ghana for the efforts made in implementing the action plan of the International Country Risk Guide (ICRG) in record time.
In its latest report on Friday, June 25, FATF noted that Ghana has strengthened the effectiveness of its regime of anti-money laundering and countering terrorism financing “and addressed related technical deficiencies to meet the commitments in its action plan regarding the strategic deficiencies that the FATF identified in October 2018”.
“Ghana is therefore no longer subject to the FATF’s increased monitoring process. 
“Ghana will continue to work with GIABA to improve further its AML/CFT regime.”
ARLOS KINGSLEY Ahenkorah, a deputy Minister for Trade and Industry has revealed plans to create an industrial park in the Ahanta West District of the Western Region to support industrialization in the area.
“I am very happy about the industrial development of this area and if we continue to support the government, Ahanta West might become one of the best industrial hubs in the country,” he stated.
The deputy minister then appealed to the chiefs and traditional leaders in Ahanta West to ensure flexible land schemes to facilitate the setting up of industries.
According to him, the president had agreed that the Ministry of Trade and Industry used $79 million to create an industrial park with the requisite facilities in each region.
He explained that the move was geared towards enhancing industrial production across the regions and generally promoting export development.
“It is also one of our 10 points transformation agenda which is to establish at least one major industrial park in each of the regions,” he added.
The deputy minister disclosed this when he inaugurated the Ahanta West Municipal Assembly on Thursday.
The 52 assembly members comprised 36 elected and 16 government appointees.
He urged the assembly to remain focused in improving the basic necessities of life and to improve conditions in their areas.
He said government was determined to empower local governments and communities by giving them more resources and authority to improve their living standards. 
He pointed out that the rapid development of the country must be a shared responsibility of the central government, and more significantly, the district assembly and the communities.
The Municipal Chief Executive, Henrietta Eyeson said the inauguration marked another important milestone in the history of the county’s local governance system.
She called on the elected and government appointed assembly members to live up to the tasks and the expectations of the people who voted them into office.
A Senior Lecturer at the Finance Department of the University of Ghana, Dr Lord Mensah has rated the NPP very ‘low’ in economic management.
According to him, the NPP’s whiz-kid in economy, Vice President Dr Mahamudu Bawumia has failed the nation after his series of lectures on how he was going to revamp Ghana’s economy whiles in opposition.
THE CENTRAL Bank has revealed that local banks whose licences were revoked were rude and thought they could disregard the authority of the Bank of Ghana (BoG).
According to Dr Ernest Addison, Governor, Capital Bank for instance, refused to cooperate with potential private sector acquirers and would not even allow due diligence to be carried out.
Speaking at the 71st Annual New Year School in Accra, Dr Addison noted: “We convened several meetings with shareholders and directors of the bank to try to ensure that they cooperated with the potential acquirers but their posture remained one of defiance because they had become accustomed to getting things done through influence peddling. 
Previously, BoG had approved several applications for liquidity support to Capital Bank on unjustifiable grounds and Capital Bank did not foresee that the BoG would behave differently even under the new management.”
He said the decision to revoke the licences of the banks was well thought through and executed even though several issues came up.
According to him, government agreed to provide relief to depositors by stepping in to guarantee the payment of all depositors’ funds.
“This paved the way for the BoG to finalise its eventual resolution approach of protecting depositors from losses by allowing depositors’ claims to be transferred through a Purchase and Assumption transaction to GCB Bank, to ensure that depositors of the two banks had access to their funds through GCB, supported by a bond issued by the government to fund the deposit liabilities,” he added.
On Monday, August 7, 2017 the BoG announced the revocation of the licences of the two banks and the appointment of two joint receivers with immediate effect as required by law.
Subsequent to the revocation of UT Bank and Capital Bank licences, he said BoG commissioned investigative work to examine factors that drove the banks into insolvency.
The investigations unearthed a number of malpractices which dated back to the banks’ inception.
There was established indebtedness of shareholders and directors to the banks where the shareholders and directors took huge personal loans from the bank which were not reported to the BoG and remained unpaid in contravention of Section 70 (4) of Act 930 (as amended), which states that management of a bank shall report to the board and BoG an exposure to an insider or related interest of that insider.
He also said the non-existence of required capital as licences were obtained by false pretence or misrepresentations while also the banks were abused by their related holding companies.
“For instance, one bank was paying royalties for the brand name even at a time that the bank’s financial performance was abysmal and could not pay dividends. 
This decision was made by four out of seven members of the board without the consent of the other significant minority shareholders, including an international financial institution. 
As a result, the international institution abrogated its relationship with the bank and this led to most foreign lenders cutting off their credit lines to the bank and recalling their credits thereby creating serious liquidity squeeze to the bank,” he stated.
Other reasons were the unbridled use of BoG’s liquidity support. He said both UT Bank and Capital Bank were granted a total amount of GH¢1.48 billion as liquidity support in three to four tranches under circumstances which were questionable.
“There was no follow up to ensure that liquidity supports were used for the purpose for which they were granted as required by law. 
In the circumstances, the liquidity support was misused, with some of it used mainly for placements, investments, financing related party transactions, and loans to highly politically exposed people.”
Additionally, Dr Addison said non-executive directors of the banks compromised their independence and fiduciary dutiesto serve as checks on executive directors, while in the case of Capital Bank; its directors/management misrepresented its financial status when a property belonging to the bank was assigned to a shareholder in 2012 without properly accounting for it in the bank’s books.  
Furthermore, he said nonexecutive directors interfered in the day-to-day administration; there was general lack of adherence to credit management principles and proceduresas the banks were heavily exposed to insiders and related parties; there was diversion of funds to holding companies and their related parties where placements could not be traced to the bank’s records though some customers showed proof of their investments with the bank.
There were irregular board meetings and lastly very high executive compensation schemesoperated by the affected banks which were not commensurate with their operations adding that the risk and earnings profile of the banks could not support the compensation schemes.
CENTRAL BANK Governor Dr. Ernest Addison has explained how most local banks whose licences were revoked were given ample time to right their wrongs but their managements could simply not do so.  
Speaking at the 71st New Year School at the University of Ghana, Legon, he stated, “From the initial briefing we received from technical assessments (Asset Quality Reviews) carried out on banks in 2015 and updated in 2016 by our Banking Supervision Department and international partners to establish the solvency of the banking sector, UT Bank and Capital Bank were clearly classified as deeply insolvent, while seven others had been identified as severely undercapitalized.”
“Faced with these facts, the urgent focus of our initial policies was to design credible plans for the resolution of the two insolvent banks to prevent spillovers to the other banks and the broader economy. In addition, the other undercapitalized banks were tasked to submit recapitalization plans and work to implement same,” he added.
Dr. Addison explained, “Our immediate efforts to address the insolvency of UT Bank and Capital Bank started with meetings with the shareholders and directors of the two banks, where we shared with them the diagnosis of insolvency and requested them to implement measures to quickly restore their capital adequacy to prudential levels. 
We were not required to do so under the law, as the two banks were already classified as insolvent by the technical assessment carried out by BoG prior to the start of my administration. 
“Moreover, the Banks and Specialised Deposit-Taking Institutions Act of 2016 (Act 930) required us to revoke a banking licence once an institution reached the stage of insolvency. Nevertheless, we gave these banks the opportunity to correct the insolvency and tried to exhaust all the options.”
He said UT bank submitted a capital restoration plan which was not credible, essentially requiring government to take over the bank’s portfolio of bad debt it had created through loans that were granted to certain borrowers sometimes above regulatory limits, and that had become unrecoverable
He continued that so bad was the financial condition of UT Bank that when BoG engaged with other banks to explore whether they could acquire the bank and rehabilitate it, they showed unwillingness; they had conducted their own independent due diligence on the bank.
He said one of such potential bank acquirers, after their due diligence exercise, noted, “The poor quality of loans assets, potential tax liabilities, existing litigation and demands by third party lenders for settlement of their accounts make the acquisition of UT bank … a highly unattractive and risky proposition.”
He said such conclusion was arrived at based on the following factors: UT Bank had not filed corporate tax returns since 2015, Asset Quality was extremely poor with NPLs of 44 per cent, loans that had been classified as performing had not been serviced for a year, indicating that the NPL ratio was underestimated,  collateral security for loans had not been perfected and in most of the cases, the security of loans had not been stamped or registered, while the bank was in default of borrowing from several international lenders including the IFC, DEG.
“Also, there was active litigation against the bank (valued at over GH¢170 million), and the bank had excessive risk concentration to a few major depositors.
Ghana’s High Commissioner to the United Kingdom (UK) Papa Owusu-Ankomah has urged Ghanaian garment and textile manufacturers to take advantage of the numerous opportunities that exist in the UK and European markets following UK’s decision to leave the European Union.
“Brexit has opened up new markets, and it is my hope that you use the opportunity to manufacture more in order to create wealth and generate employment in Ghana,” Mr. Owusu-Ankomah advised.
The high commissioner made these revelations at an event hosted by the Ghana High Commission to introduce Ghanaian garment manufacturers to potential buyers in the UK and Europe. It was organised by Ethical Apparel Africa, a UK-based garment sourcing and development organisation, in collaboration with Ghana’s Ministry of Trade and Industry through their UK office and supported by the UK Department for International Development (DFID).
Mr. Owusu-Ankomah further urged the Ghanaian manufacturers to find out what the expectations of the market were in order to live up to them.
Patrick Nimo, Chief Director, Ghana’s Ministry of Trade and Industry, urged participants to make the most of Ghana’s position as the Headquarters of the African Continental Trade Area and to use Ghana as a base to access the bigger African market.
Keren Pybus, Founder and CEO of Apparel Africa, disclosed that she chose Ghana as her base because of the stable political and economic environment, as well as a youthful and hard-working industrial population. She, therefore, called on the major international brands in the UK and Europe to consider Ghana as their manufacturing base.
Others present at the event included Kofi Addo, Head of Strategic Anchor Industries and Special Initiatives at the Ministry of Trade; Paakow Bartels, Head of Trade and Investment at the Ghana High Commission; Dodzie Numekevor, Head of Public Affairs and Information; Mr. Peter McAllister of the Ethical Trading Initiative and Naana Frempong Arhin from the DFID.
Some of the manufacturers who exhibited their products were Adjo Asare of Alfie Designs, Mrs. Linda Ampah of KAD Designs and Maa Grace Designs.
President Akufo-Addo will open the Ghana Investment and Opportunity Summit scheduled to take place in London from 21st to 22nd January 2020.
The Summit is being held under the theme: “Accessing the African Common market through Ghana-Technology, Digitization and Industrialization.
This is the second edition but this year’s summit will be taking place as part of the bigger UK-Africa Summit with about 28 African leaders in attendance.
Organised by the Ghana High Commission UK in partnership with the Ghana Investments Promotion Centre (GIPC), the summit will also afford some key government actors an opportunity to engage global investors and attract strategic and development funds and investments for key projects as well as match local businesses with international partners and Investors.
Some of them include Foreign Affairs Minister Shirley Ayorkor Botchwey, Finance Minister Ken Ofori-Atta, Trade Minister Allan Kyerematen, and Communications Minister Ursula Owusu-Ekuful.
The rest are Minister for Information Kojo Oppong Nkrumah, Minister for Railway Development Joe Ghartey and the Minister for Food and Agriculture Owusu Afriyie Akoto among other top Chief Executives and Dignitaries.
With the upward adjustment of monthly pensions in 2020, the Social Security and National Insurance Trust (SSNIT) is expected to spend an additional GH¢243 million in paying pensioners on the scheme this year.
SSNIT, earlier this year at a press conference in Accra, explained that all pensioners on its payroll as of December 31, 2019 will see a 6.6percent increment and an additional flat amount of GH¢37 on their monthly pensions this year. 
With this redistribution, the lowest-earning pensioner will benefit from a total increase of 19percent which translates to GH¢357, an improvement from GH¢300 they previously earned.
This adjustment also means 70percent of all pensioners will receive 11 percent increase on their pensions while 98percent of pensioners will receive an increase equal to or above the targeted inflation rate for 2020. 
What this essentially means is that, no pensioner on the scheme will see their income dwindle due to inflation.
Despite the upward adjustment, called indexation, which has given pensioners an increase in their benefits, there are still concerns that pensioners on the scheme earn too little which leaves many destitute in their retirement age.
This, Director General of SNNIT, Dr. John Ofori-Tenkorang maintains is outside the control of the Trust as benefits of pensioners are determined based on how much they contributed to the scheme during their active service.
Hence, his advocacy that contributions should be based on the full take-home salary of workers (including allowances) rather than just the basic salary which, in most cases, has been structured to be very small so as to pay little to the scheme.
“That discussion has to be had by two key stakeholder groups—labour and employers. 
The 13.5 percent that comes to SSNIT is from the employer and the worker. 
So if you have to change the amount, that conversation must come from those two stakeholder groups. 
It has been raised and I am sure this year, the interested parties will take it on and have that discussion.
As for SSNIT, our job is to lay out the roadmap and point put the landmines and the pitfalls along the journey from seeking employment to retirement. 
It is a conversation that will have to be had.
There are reports of employees who connive with their employers to pay very little SSNIT because they reason they are better-off taking it now and forget about what will happen in the future. 
Those are the kinds of advocacy we will put out there for the right stakeholders to pick it up,” he said during a media interaction in Accra.
GHANA MAINTAINED its status as one of Africa’s fastest-growing economies in 2019, courtesy to an expansion of mining, oil and gas activities, amid continuing diversification efforts.
In an evaluation released in December, the IMF projected annual growth of seven per cent in 2019. 
While down on earlier estimates of 7.5%, it is up on 2018’s expansion of 6.3%.
The revised outlook largely aligns with official government projections of 7.1% and the latest outlook from the African Development Bank, which forecast annual growth of 7.3%.
While year-end projections are strong, preliminary results have been slightly more moderate.
According to data from the Ghana Statistical Service (GSS), the economy expanded by 6.7% year-on-year (y-o-y) in the first quarter, followed by growth of 5.7% and 5.6% in the second and third quarters, respectively.
The overall central government deficit is projected to remain unchanged at seven per cent of the GDP, as a result of lower-than-expected revenue, spending on flagship programmes and unexpected security outlays, according to the IMF.
A key factor behind 2019’s growth is the double-digit expansion in oil and gas GDP, which the IMF expects to rise by 17.1%.
Production of crude oil rose from 195,000 barrels per day (bpd) at the beginning of the year to 214,000 bpd as of August.
According to GSS data, annual oil and gas expenditure is on track to total $3.1bn in 2019, up from $2.3 billion and $2.6 billion in 2017 and 2018, respectively, with much of this dedicated to field exploration.
As a result of increased exploration spending, in November, local energy company, Springfield Group announced that it had made two significant offshore discoveries, the first find of its size by an African oil and gas firm. 
The company estimates that the discoveries contain over three billion barrels of oil and gas.
At the same time, government is actively seeking to bolster returns in agriculture, one of the country’s long-standing economic drivers.
While the sector’s contribution to GDP has declined from 32% to around 20% over the past decade, in part due to improved performance in other industries, agriculture remained hugely important to Ghana’s economy, employing an estimated one-third of the workforce.
Agricultural products are one of Ghana’s main exports, and cocoa makes up around a quarter of overall export revenue. 
In order to ensure higher earnings for farmers in August, Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire announced a new pricing mechanism for the sale of cocoa beans, implementing a minimum price of $2600 per tonne for the 2020/21 season.
The initiative, coupled with efforts to boost domestic production of agricultural crops, aims to increase the earnings of the sector.
While cocoa is a staple of the economy, officials have sought to diversify the sector’s offerings and boost other segments: exports of non-traditional products, such as cashews and shea nuts, increased by 21% in 2018.
Efforts to diversify the economy were strengthened with the inauguration of the first stage of the US$1.5 billion expansion of Tema Port, the country’s largest maritime hub.
Following the construction of a 3.5km breakwater, additional dredging work and upgrades to three berthing facilities, the port has a capacity to handle two-metre twenty-foot equivalent units, double the previous limit.
On top of increasing capacity for Ghanaian exports, the ongoing expansion of Tema – along with works to upgrade Takoradi Port – dovetails with efforts to make Ghana a regional trans-shipment hub, providing opportunities for growth in the transport and logistics sector.
This has already led to some promising developments. 
In October, German shipping company, Hapag-Lloyd announced that Tema would be its trans-shipment hub in West Africa.
However, some industry insiders have argued that for Ghana – and in particular Tema – to emerge as a trans-shipment hub, more needs to be done to ensure it is cost-competitive.
The year 2019 also saw the government continue its proactive role in attempting to strengthen the financial sector.
In mid-August the Bank of Ghana announced that it had revoked the licences of 23 savings and loans companies for continued insolvency.
The development is part of ongoing efforts to clean up the financial sector, which saw the central bank revoke the licences of 420 institutions since 2017.
In addition to the closures, the authorities have sought to improve investor confidence by increasing the minimum capital requirement for commercial banks from GH¢120 million ($21 million) to GH¢400 million (US$69.9 million), while in August, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) outlined plans to raise the limit for fund managers 20-fold, from GH¢100,000 (US$17,500) to two million Ghana Cedis (US$349,500).
Meanwhile, in a continuation of the country’s strong financial technology development, the value of mobile money transactions rose by 34% y-o-y in the first half of 2019 to GH¢140.2 billion (US$24.5 billion).
The Governor of the Bank of Ghana, Dr. Ernest Addison has said the current financial sector is healthier than before.
The sector is emerging from a crisis that resulted in the loss of millions of investments, and thousands of jobs.
Speaking at the University of Ghana’s annual New Year School on Tuesday, the Central Bank Governor said the country is emerging from the financial crisis stronger than ever.
“The Bank of Ghana has every reason to feel confident about gains and achievements made so far in the financial sector. 
The sector is healthier, is better able to withstand financial shocks, compared to what we inherited at the beginning of 2017.”
“It is better capitalised, it is more liquid and profitable, it is more efficient and has adequate available assets,” Dr. Addison said.
The financial sector clean-up commenced by the Akufo-Addo administration in August 2017 led to the collapse of nine universal banks, 347 microfinance companies, 39 microcredit companies or money lenders, 15 savings and loans companies, eight finance house companies, and two non-bank financial institutions.
Most recently, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) announced the revocation of licenses of 53 Fund Management Companies.
The total estimated cost of the state’s fiscal intervention, excluding interest payments, from 2017 to 2019 is estimated at GHS16.4 billion.
The growth rate in commercial banks’ deposits has however slowed down amidst the reforms undertaken by the central bank to strengthen the sector.
The Bank of Ghana in its latest banking sector report stated that deposits, as the main source of funding for the banking industry, grew by 17.1 percent in October 2019, marginally lower than the 20.7 percent increase in the previous year.
The central bank report means that although bank total deposits still grew in the period under review, the rate of growth fell short of what was achieved a year earlier.
The total banking sector deposits increased to GH¢78.90 billion by GH¢11.51 billion in October 2019 from GH¢67.38 billion in October 2018. 
Despite the slowdown in growth rate, the Bank of Ghana maintains that the sheer growth points to a renewed confidence in the banking sector following the reforms.
According to the report, domestic deposits grew at the same pace as total deposits to GH¢78.50 billion in October 2019 from GH¢67.04 billion in the previous year, while deposits of non-residents remained small at GH¢397.70 million from GH¢342.10 million.
Gold Coast Refinery, a major player in the precious mineral industry, has moved towards increasing the quantum of locally refined gold.
To achieve this feat, Dr. Said Deraz, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the refinery which is the second largest in Africa, has said he has stretched a hand of collaboration with the Minerals Commission to improve the business.
He said the refinery has the capacity to effect a major turnaround in the quantum of refined gold stock towards increased revenue.
Ghana, he observed, could reverse the current situation if players in the industry were empowered, adding “we have the capacity in terms of the technology and human resource to refine as much gold as could be refined locally.”
He recalled the remarks of the Board Chairman of the Minerals Commission, Rev. S.K. Boafo, last year, when he bemoaned the lack of value addition to Ghana’s gold and hinted that the commission was working on a document to improve and add value to gold produced in the country.
Such a policy, he said, was long overdue because it could have a huge impact on the local economy.
“You can imagine how much more Ghana would make from gold if that kind of a policy becomes operational. 
Think about the employment avenues the increased revenue from gold, the valuable by-products that will be obtained from it,” he stressed.
He said silver, platinum and copper are some of the valuable by-products from refined gold all of which constitute substantial revenue sources for the country.
The Takoradi Port recorded an increase in port traffic from 8.2 million metric tons (mt) in 2018 to 9.9 million mt in 2019, representing an increase of 21 per cent in total port traffic. It also registered an increase of 43 per cent in exports. 
The port however, recorded 13 per cent decrease in imports, 21 per cent decrease in transshipment and 26 per cent in transit. 
Vessel calls to the port also decreased by 206 from 1,712 in 2018, to 1,506 in 2019. 
Captain Ebenezer Afadzi, the Director of Takoradi Port, made this known at a press soiree organised by the port management in Takoradi, to interact, inform and educate stakeholders about the development of the port. 
He said despite the increase in commercial vessel calls from 645 in 2018, to 743 in 2019, oil supply vessel calls decreased from 1,067 calls in 2018, to 793 in 2019. 
He mentioned that the situation was, however, set to change in the year 2020 with a lot of activities expected in the oil and gas fields.
He pointed out that with regards to the Takoradi Port expansion programme – significant milestones had been achieved under the various projects and developments in the port. 
He disclosed that the construction of the 800 metre quay wall had been completed and installed with 48 fenders and 28 bollards. 
“Discussions are still on course to ensure the installation of a 3,000mt/hr capacity conveyor system to ensure cost efficient service delivery,” he said.
He added that in August 2019, the first quay block was positioned to signal commencement of work on a new container terminal and added that all things being equal, 600 metres of the quay wall would be completed come November 2020.
The Director of Takoradi port noted that so far 95 per cent of the first phase of new oil jetty facility had been completed. 
He added that the second phase of the project, which was currently ongoing, involved the installation of a firefighting system, a pigging system, heat tracing line and metring.
He revealed that the Ghana Ports and Habours Authority (GPHA) was in discussions with a private partner, Redsea Gateway Terminal Services (RSGT) for the development of the oil and gas hub at the port.
“The contract will involve the reclamation of 28 acres of land at the former cocoa wharf, construction of 550 metre quay wall with berth pockets dredged to -9m,” he added.
He mentioned that the hub, when completed, would pave the way for increased efficiency in the handling of oil supply vessels operating on Ghana’s oil fields and beyond.
The embattled Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of gold dealership firm, Menzgold Ghana Limited, Nana Appiah Mensah, aka NAM1, fired gunshots into the air to scare some of his aggrieved customers who attempted to scale the wall to his house, the police have revealed.
According to the fact sheet presented to a Madina Circuit Court in respect of some Menzgold customers put before the court, the customers had forced their way through the main gate of the Estates where NAM1 resides after they had overpowered the security officers guarding the place and advanced towards NAM1’s house.
It said some of the customers were angrily banging on the gate to the house while others went round trying to scale the wall into the house.
“To forestall order and also prevent them from entering the house, the complainant (NAM1) picked his registered gun, went behind the house and fired some shots into the air  and by so doing those who wanted to scale the wall ran back to join their colleagues and not quite long the police patrol teams arrived,” the fact sheet stated.
Ninety-two (92) customers of Menzgold Ghana Limited were on January 8, 2020 arrested for besieging the residence of NAM1 at Trasacco Estates at East Legon, Accra.
Five of them were later charged and put before a Madina Circuit Court on charges of conspiracy to commit crime, unlawful entry, unlawful assembly and offensive conduct.
The rest could not make it to court as most of them leave outside Accra and were said to have received the notice to appear in court late while others have not heard it at all.
The five who appeared in court pleaded not guilty to the charges and the matter was adjourned to February 11, 2020 for continuation.
The fact sheet stated that the accused persons upon interrogation indicated that they were customers of Menzgold who came from Kumasi in the Ashanti Region to demand their locked up investment with the company.
They told the police that they belonged to a group and were on social media platform (WhatsApp) where they planned to go to NAM1’s house to demand their investments.
“On January 8, 2020, they boarded two VIP buses which had been arranged for them to Accra and went straight to the house of the complainant. 
Investigations revealed that the accused persons did not notify police of their intention to assemble at the main entrance of Trasacco Estates,” the fact sheet concluded.
The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) Mrs. Mawusi Awity has been name 10 best CEOs of the year 2019 by state enterprises commissin.
Mrs Mawusi Awity within 2 years of taking the reins of affairs at the institute has brought massive palpable transformation.
With a mission to provide demand-driven employment-worthy skills and enhance the income-generating capacities of basic school and secondary school leavers by employing competency-based apprenticeship, master craftsmanship, testing and career development, the NVTI, under the leadership of Mrs Awity, has undergone steady transformation.
Since Mrs Awity took over, a great deal of attention has been shifted to the institute, with more opportunities being given to girls to take vocational and technical education seriously.
It is with honour and nostalgia that I stand here today to deliver this key note address to mark the 10th anniversary of Ghana Interbank Payment and Settlement Systems Ltd (GhIPSS).
It is nostalgic because I witnessed the early beginnings of GhIPSS and to see how it has evolved into the institution that it is today. 
It is really a very humbling experience.
This is not one which I can “say you and I were not there” because all of us were there 10 years ago as we witnessed the birth of this institution.
Let me also join others to congratulate all those who worked tirelessly to ensure the formation of GhIPSS and of course those who continue to support it as it carries out its mandate.
I will like to single out for special mention, the former governor Dr. Paul Acquah, who is a consummate visionary and technocrat.
He had this vision about how the payment system would evolved, of course I as a deputy governor can only do what my governor allows me to do and he gave me some latitude to carry out his vision, but it is primarily Dr. Acquah’s vision. 
There were others who made this possible; Fred France, Korsah , Joseph Tetteh and Narh.
We had a vision to really move Ghana from cash base society towards an electronic payment base society. I remember sometime in 2006, sitting in a restaurant in Accra and some clients on the next table when it came to time for payment and these were not Ghanaians.
When the bill was brought, they started making fun of the currency because they had a lot of currency to pay , they said “I billion ,2 billion” and as I sat down, I listened and said something has to change and we went and discussed this issue in the context of our old payment system development and what to do but we realised that to move towards Electronic- payment, once we have stabilised the macro economy we needed to re-denominate the currency as well because how do you expect people to use ATMs when you cannot really function?.
The ATMs will not function properly because they have to be bringing out so much cash out of them for just very small amount of money that people were taking out, so we decided to re-denominate the currency which we did in 2007 and it was all part of these pieces of this jigsaw to move us toward more convenient payment system in the country. 
So it is really also about financial inclusion as we thought more and more about the economy and the management of the economy.
We understood that one of the biggest problems was interest rate and how to bring down interest rate.
It was a major challenge; a problem that many countries from the 18th century had basically solved which is making sure a lot of the population are banked was one that we were living with. 
Ghana and many other countries on the continent had a large chunk of the population unbanked, but when you have a large chunk of the population unbanked it means savings in the financial system are lower.
It means there is a lot savings outside the financial system, but interest rate fundamentally is just a demand and supply of savings. If your supply of savings is limited because a lot of the savings are outside the banking system, the price of those savings which is your interest rate will be higher.
So this was the simple analytics that said let us try to bring the payment system to a level where it will bring about financial inclusion, then you will be able to sustainably tackle the interest rate problem, and this is really the background to how do we bring more people in the financial system.
How do we get people who have never gone into a bank getting bank accounts and this was the background to the e-zwich financial system because we wanted it biometrically based. 
We wanted to make sure that to have financial inclusion you had to have a national switch. 
It has been very remarkable.
Institutions like GhIPSS play a critical role in the transformation of economies, bringing about efficiency in payment systems, which is a key facilitator of business. 
Ghana over the last 10 years through the efforts of GhIPSS has witnessed some transformation of the Ghanaian payment systems landscape in line with global trends.
Just to cite an example of what GhIPSS has accomplished as we heard earlier: 10 years ago, a cheque issued from the northern zone (Kumasi/ Sunyani/Tamale) took 7-10 days to clear . . . today that same cheque can be cleared in a few hours or maximum in a day. 
The impact of this singular act of change on commerce and business cannot be over-emphasized.
Ladies and Gentlemen, the theme of the anniversary, Celebrating 10 years of Promoting Electronic Payments in Ghana, encapsulates what GhIPSS has been doing over the past decade. 
Beginning with just one product - the e-zwich, the company now has at least 7 distinct payment options with several variations.
What is mind boggling when you think about the number of transaction that go through the GhIPSS system.
Processing just about 3.8 million Ghana cedis worth of transactions in its first year, GhIPSS has recorded a phenomenal growth in the value of transactions, rising to a whopping 47.3 billion Ghana cedis in the first quarter of this year alone.
This is a clear indication of the central role GhIPSS has been playing in the financial intermediation arena of our economy.
Despite this obvious transformation to our payment system, the rate of patronage and the impact on the unbanked is not what we would wish.
As Mr. Amoabeng has noted, and he is one of those who saw the vision quite earlier, the banks have been a bit slow in catching on to this financial inclusion agenda but they are coming along.
While South Africa has about 86 percent of its adult population with access to banking, we have just about 35 percent.
Our neighbour, Nigeria is recording a drop in the issuance of cheques while internet banking, mobile banking, and Point of Sale (POS) usage are on the rise, clearly showing that electronic payment is deepening in that country.
If we deepen the usage of these electronic payment channels, we as individuals will benefit from it, businesses will gain significantly and the economy as a whole will be richer for it. The success of GhIPSS therefore directly impacts on us as a people.
Happenings across our continent, suggest that we take the electronic payment agenda a notch higher in Ghana so we are not left behind.
Ghana has a robust payment infrastructure which places us at an enviable position to take the world by storm. 
What is required is a holistic and joint effort of all stakeholders, to shift behaviours towards electronic payment options.
Let me therefore urge the financial institutions to work closely with GhIPSS and to vigorously promote these channels of payments. 
Achieving a total migration of our payment behaviour in favour of electronic channels actually feeds into our mandate as a government.
His Excellency the President,Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, has been categorical about his unwavering desire to see this country’s economy transform under his leadership and we are working day and night to ensure this happens to the benefit of our people of Ghana who have reposed their confidence in the government.
Ladies and Gentlemen, as part of the transformation agenda, we have set out to ensure the deepening of financial inclusion. 
And as the CEO of GhIPSS mentioned, I have asked them to work to ensure that our financial system is totally interoperable and I am glad to say that they are on course. 
I am looking forward to the realisation of this goal before the end of this year.
As you are aware, the government is also working to ensure that we have a proper National Identification System in place before the year ends.
If we achieve these, which I believe we can, our financial sector would witness a huge transformation that we have never witnessed.
I say so because, our financial services would have the most effective primary and unique identifier of each person and with the plethora of electronic payment delivery channels, coupled with the macroeconomic stability we are pursuing, one can envisage the massive flow of credit to the private sector that will occur. 
The resultant business expansion, job and wealth creation will follow naturally.
As we all know, we do not really have a properly functioning credit reference agency in the country, and one of the limitations is the fact that we cannot uniquely identify everyone. 
In addition to that, property addressing is very problematic.
Thankfully this year, we have decided that Ghana is going to migrate using technology to a digital address system. 
The technology is available; every place can be identified uniquely by a unique code.
We are going to take advantage of this technology and leapfrog other countries and establish digital addressing system this year. 
It will make a major difference because addresses will then allow business to happen and it will allow unique identification to be also complemented by unique address.
You cannot function without an address system in the advanced economies, so many businesses are based on the address system, and this is why it means so much to Ghana.
Ladies and Gentlemen, let me say unequivocally, that I fully support any effort to make our public sector efficient, effective and devoid of corruption. 
Indeed, it fits into government’s anti-corruption stance and I can promise you that the government will get the public sector institutions to make electronic payment, the default form of receiving taxes, levies and fees.
If we do not make it the default, then we cannot have that sort of usage in many places and we are moving to do that.
It is obvious, Ladies and Gentlemen, that government’s efforts to sanitise the country’s entry ports and reduce time spent clearing goods, will be greatly enhanced, if all payments are done electronically. We have already embarked on a project to go paperless at the ports.
This initiative at the ports should entice financial institutions and Fintech companies to work closely with GhIPSS in providing solutions that will support payments at the ports.
Ladies and Gentlemen, the ten years in the life of GhIPSS has been important and well utilised. 
But even more important is the ten years ahead of us. 
As government hurries with its economic transformation agenda, I would expect GhIPSS, the financial institutions and other stakeholders to also hurry along.
The next decade should see complete transformation of the country’s payment system that radically changes how payment is done from the mall to the market. 
Financial inclusion should be optimal and majority of us should be using electronic payment channels regularly.
After 60 years of independence, it cannot longer be business as usual. 
We all must roll our sleeves and work to transform our country.
We owe it a duty to bequeath to the younger generation, a Ghana that we can all be proud off, a Ghana that has enough jobs for its citizens, a Ghana that gives opportunities to its citizens, and a Ghana that is truly the shining star of Africa.
May God bless our efforts as we seek to make Ghana great again.
God bless our homeland Ghana
Thank you very much for your attention.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen,
Earlier today, the Supreme Court of Ghana delivered its verdict on a petition we filed against the declaration made on the evening of 9th December 2020 by the Chairperson of the Electoral Commission of Ghana, Mrs. Jean Mensa, on the Presidential Elections of December 7, 2020.
My brothers and sisters, I did not take the decision to go to court lightly. 
In fact, many were those who expressed misgivings about my decision, not because we did not have a strong case, but because of the times we live in.
I still believe that no matter the circumstances, it was the right thing to do. It is gratifying that the court’s proceedings were broadcast live. 
Ghanaians followed the hearings diligently. 
They understood what was happening even if the legal terminologies were not always easy to grasp.
Even though the petition to the Supreme Court stood in my name, it nonetheless represented the desire of an overwhelming number of Ghanaians, anxious for answers from the Chairperson of the Electoral Commission as the Returning Officer of the December 2020 Presidential Election.
Ghanaians were hoping to hear her testify and many are still baffled by the refusal of Mrs. Jean Mensa to be held to account by testifying in this case – unfortunately, with the unanimous agreement of the justices of the Supreme Court of Ghana. 
This vital part of the process to establish the truth and hold Mrs. Jean Mensa accountable was blocked time and again by a protective cordon and firewall that I am sure have confounded many Ghanaians.
The refusal of the Chairperson is in sharp contrast to the readiness with which Dr. Kwadwo Afari Gyan, then Chairman of the Electoral Commission willingly testified in the 2013 Election petition filed by then candidate Nana Akufo-Addo of the NPP.
Speaking as a Ghanaian, with no legal training, I believe that the refusal of the Electoral Commission Chairperson to testify in this election petition, leaves a bad precedent for the future. 
I disagree with the suggestion of our Justices that an election petition is akin to any other civil litigation and therefore an EC Chairperson, whose functions go to the heart of our democracy, can by a legal sleight of hand avoid accounting for her stewardship in an appropriate forum such as the highest court of the land.
Our legal team, led by Mr. Tsatsu Tsikata, put together our case in a clear manner, which left no one in doubt about what the issues were. 
Apart from seeking to ensure compliance with the constitution and for the true choice of the people of Ghana to be respected, the Petition sought to provide opportunity for transparency and accountability in the management of our electoral processes. 
But no one who followed the proceedings in the Supreme Court will be surprised with the judgement pronounced some hours ago.
Much as I am aware that we are legally bound by the decision of the Supreme Court, I disagree with the process of trial and ruling of the court.
Ladies and Gentlemen, our 1992 Constitution says very directly in Article 125 Section 1 that: “Justice emanates from the people and shall be administered in the name of the Republic by the Judiciary, which shall be independent and subject only to this constitution.”
I believe that the law should not be an instrument for partisan purposes. 
I also believe that the rule of law should mean one rule for all. 
What anchors the rule of law is equality and fairness to all, irrespective of creed, background, or political coloration. Justice, we must remember, is rooted in moral foundations.
Ghanaians will always remember that moment when my lead counsel, Mr. Tsatsu Tsikata, quoted from the Holy Bible urging the Justices of the Supreme Court to be faithful to their Judicial Oath and their conscience, only for the lawyer representing Nana Akufo-Addo, the 2nd Respondent, to argue for the exclusion of God in the matter. 
Yet, in the courts of Ghana, we swear on the Bible or the Cross, as we also do with the Holy Koran, to speak the truth and nothing but the truth.
Ghanaians will also remember this 2021 Election Petition for that profound moment when the Chairperson of the Electoral Commission opted to evade public scrutiny. 
Everything was done in this trial to prevent the Commission from accounting to the people in whose name they hold office.
Requests for Interrogatories were dismissed. 
A request to inspect documents in the possession of the Commission was turned down. 
The request for admission of facts was ignored.
Worse still, she was aided by her counsel and the court to avoid explaining to the good people of Ghana from her own testimony, under oath in a properly constituted court of law, the errors she herself admits to have committed in the declaration of the 2020 Presidential election results.
This is a clear stab in the heart of transparency and accountability to the sovereign people of Ghana. 
Whatever the reasons for not allowing Mrs. Jean Mensa to testify or answer any questions, it leaves an embarrassing stain, not only on our justice delivery system but also, on the nation’s electoral system, which has deepened the grave doubts harboured by many Ghanaians about the true outcome of the December 2020 Presidential Election.
The motto of Ghana’s Electoral Commission is Transparency, Fairness and Integrity – principles the key actors clearly failed to live up to on this occasion. 
The refusal to account to Ghanaians, further, sets the worrying precedent – and I do really worry about this dangerous precedent – that may allow other heads of state institutions to adopt an approach of opacity and non-accountability in their work.
Just because they can rely on unconvincing interpretations of our laws to shield them from scrutiny in the near future. 
I hope and pray that time will prove me wrong.
There is a famous legal maxim brought into common use by Lord Chief Justice Hewart in 1924, that “Justice must not only be done but should manifestly and undoubtedly seen to be done”.
While judgement was given in this petition, it cannot be said by many to have been seen to be done by the constant unanimous strictures placed on the petitioner in laying out his case.
I have followed the proceedings of this petition and listened to the testimony of our General Secretary Johnson Asiedu Nketiah from beginning to end. 
I am quite alarmed at the mutilation of his testimony in the Supreme Court ruling.
Indeed, the ruling I heard today, virtually makes him the star witness of the 1st and 2nd Respondents. 
Many answers of his testimony in cross examination were taken out of context to create the basis for the dismissal of our election petition.
Ladies and Gentlemen, this case will go into the Ghana Law Reports for the future, and academics and students of law alike will clearly find befuddling, the internal contradictions in our jurisprudence. 
At the appropriate time, the legal team will come out with detailed comments on the judgment.
The Supreme Court has given its verdict, but the national debate on the dismal state of our democracy and the increasing weakness of its institutions has only just begun. 
It is time we all come together to confront those who seek to destroy the very democratic system that brought them into office. 
It is our patriotic duty to do so.
Ladies and Gentlemen, it bears reiterating that our grievances with the conduct of the 2020 elections was not limited to just the Presidential elections. 
Doubts about the Commission’s commitment to fairness and transparency have lingered much longer than the duration of this Petition.
The doubts have attended their every action, and rightly so, because of their posturing and sometimes duplicitous conduct. 
As I have alluded to in the past, the current leadership of the Commission, was installed after the politically motivated removal of the previous leadership. 
Since then, every step they have taken has appeared to be calculated at ensuring the retention of the appointing authority in power.
Aside from the compilation of a new voter register in the midst of a pandemic, one that many Civil Society Organisations, political and governance experts insist was more procurement-induced than need-based, the time-tested process of consultation and dialogue among stakeholders through the Inter Party Advisory Committee (IPAC) was supplanted by unilateralism. 
This has not boded well for harmonious relations with stakeholders.
Compared to the two previous leaderships of the Commission, what we have now does not meet even the minimum requirements of neutrality and non-partisanship that are essential for consolidating our democracy. 
The much-touted independence of the Electoral Commission exists only in name now. 
This should give all Ghanaians cause to worry.
Today, we still have as a member of the Commission, someone who publicly stated that the political party, which I led into the December 2020 election is an existential threat to Ghana’s democracy. 
And yet that same member presided over an election in which the same political party participated.
In the Parliamentary elections, the NDC won majority of seats. However, through devious manipulation by officials of the Electoral Commission, a number of these seats were illegally declared for the NPP.
In some instances, the manipulation was so glaring and brazen that simple intervention by the leadership of the Electoral Commission as has been done by previous Commissioners could have addressed the issues and righted the wrongs to make court actions completely unnecessary.
Therefore, it is not surprising that International Election Observers captured collation and tallying of results as one of the challenges of our 2020 elections. 
The posture and approach of this current Electoral Commission does not inspire the confidence needed to preside over any transparent, free and fair election.
They have absolutely no reason to remain in office. 
This is because the Electoral Commission must remain a neutral arbiter and the organizer of elections. 
They must not hold a vested interest in the dubious victory of one party over another.
The loyalty of the Electoral Commission must be to the people of Ghana and the Constitution from which it derives its mandate, and not the President or party under whose tenure the leadership is appointed. 
Immediate reforms, reflecting the long-standing image and reputation of our Electoral Commission as one of the finest and most credible on the continent and indeed the world, must be one of the focuses of public advocacy, if future elections are to be devoid of needless tensions and anxiety.
My brothers and sisters, we cannot forget the burning issue of the deliberate exclusion of the good people of Santrokofi, Akpafu, Likpe and Lolobi (SALL) from the Parliamentary election of 2020. 
This constitutes perhaps, the gravest injustice of the 2020 elections. 
It can easily fit into the worst forms of electoral trickery ever witnessed in our nation’s history.
Despite the shenanigans employed by the conspirators in this issue, it is abundantly clear that the rights of the people of SALL to vote, was intentionally violated as part of a move to ensure the predetermined election outcome of a particular Parliamentary constituency. 
This represents unparalleled abuse of power by both the government and its handmaiden, the Electoral Commission, to influence the outcome of the Parliamentary election in Hohoe.
It is even more staggering that no one has stepped forward to take responsibility for this unjustifiable action nor indicated any clear remedy for the harm caused. 
We cannot as a people countenance this kind of gerrymandering and chicanery in our politics. 
We must with one accord, demand immediate resolution of the impasse in the SALL area and take urgent steps to afford the people their right to vote and be represented.
My brothers and sisters, we entered the 2020 elections against an incumbent that was determined to abuse power and misuse state resources and institutions to achieve electoral victory. 
The run-up to the election and some of the processes involved were characterized by intimidation and harassment from state security agents and others loyal to the current regime.
Selective deployment of military personnel was used as a tool to instil fear in some of our citizens to dissuade them from taking part in the voter registration and other processes. 
Others were falsely branded as foreigners and their citizenship called into question unjustly – an abhorrent nation-wrecking prejudice which has been directed especially against certain ethic groups of this country and has continued till date and has even recently been visited crudely on the Auditor General, Daniel Yaw Domelevo.
In the last election, unprecedented levels of state funds and resources were doled out by the ruling party, and unprovoked, deadly violence inflicted on our citizens in several cases. 
In the process, eight of our compatriots were murdered in cold blood and several others maimed during the process of the elections.
We have designated these compatriots, whose blood was shed just because they sought to participate in what was a purely civil exercise as “MARTYRS OF DEMOCRACY” to whom we shall dedicate an appropriate monument when the time comes.
I hope we can count on all well-meaning Ghanaians to support our efforts to bring the perpetrators of these murders to justice. 
Never must a government be allowed to turn the simple process of an election into a bloodbath. 
Never must impunity of this magnitude be allowed to fester in our democracy.
Our independence and the current democracy we enjoy were fought for and attained through the sacrifice and blood of our founding fathers, mothers and our compatriots. 
Never must we accept convenience over principle.
I take this opportunity to express my deep-seated appreciation to our lawyers, led by the colossus of a legal mind, Tsatsu Tsikata, for a valiant fight, which has won the admiration of many. 
Against considerable odds, they persisted and drove home our point in a manner that convinced all fair-minded observers about the just cause we had embarked on.
I express similar gratitude to all who played diverse roles in putting our case together. 
I salute our three key witnesses – our General Secretary, Johnson Asiedu Nketia, Dr. Michael Kpessah Whyte and Rojo Mettle-Nunoo for helping to unravel a part of the untold story of the flawed 2020 elections.
I also wish to place on record that the service rendered to me by my legal team in this petition was gratis – free. 
We may not have been successful. 
But your hard work and sacrifice will not go unheralded when the full story is told.
I am very much aware that there are millions watching and listening to me who are disappointed at the outcome of this case. 
For those millions, like myself, who held out hope that our democracy would be advanced by the process and outcome of this petition, you must be disappointed.
But I encourage you to hold your heads up high and channel your disappointment into hard work that will ensure that, come next election, we will achieve a truly transparent and fair election, which we all as Ghanaians can be proud of.
To all my compatriots and supporters, we may have lost the temporary battle of the 2020 election and the Petition that followed, but the larger struggle to create a society that lives up to our national motto of freedom and justice still rages on. 
It is a struggle, which requires even more commitment than before, and it is one that we will not shirk from until our patriotic aim is achieved.

To the millions of NDC supporters who have stood by me, my running mate, Professor Naana Jane Opoku Agyemang, our National Chairman, General Secretary, Campaign Chairman, FEC, NEC, Parliamentary Candidates, Sponsors and all activists and supporters who gave their all in the hope that we will win and form the next government to save our nation and meet your aspirations, do not despair at this outcome. 
I repeat. 
Do not despair! Never, ever lose hope.
We achieved an impressive showing in the last election, and despite the intimidation, obscene abuse of incumbency advantage and the massive use of funds and resources we can be proud that we gave it our best. 
Our have become stepping-stones on which the NDC can build to secure victory in the next elections.
The NDC will survive and grow from strength to strength. 
The sun may have set on our hopes for the just ended election today, but it will rise tomorrow and illuminate our path to a better outcome next time around.
To the Council of Elders, members of the National Executive Committee of the NDC, the Functional Executive Committee, the Election 2020 Campaign team, my Staff, party executives at all levels, volunteers, polling agents and all who played roles in our campaign, no matter how small, I thank you from the bottom of my heart.
The NDC will always remain the party of the people. 
The party was established to empower the people of Ghana to be architects of our own destiny. 
We blazed the trail for participatory democracy. 
And I am confident that out of the ashes of this legal setback, we will mobilize and rekindle the struggle for a better democratic Ghana.
We will be law abiding and do nothing to compromise the stability of the country. 
We will however continue to be the voice of the voiceless and will not be distracted demanding justice and fairness at all times. 
Neither will we surrender or fail to champion the rights of all our people to enjoy the fundamental freedoms guaranteed under our constitution.
To the over six million Ghanaians who entrusted me with their votes, I cannot thank you enough for this honour. 
I value your votes so much. 
It reflects the confidence you have in the ideology, the ethos and importantly the 2020 Peoples’ Manifesto of the NDC. 
We have proven to be the most viable path to rapid socio-economic development.
I can assure you that even though this was not the outcome we expected, I am sure your votes will spur us on to victory in the future elections.
I also wish to acknowledge and commend the courage and commitment of Civil Society Organisations, journalists and individuals who have dedicated their lives to speak truth to power irrespective of which party sits at the Flagstaff House.
Whiles in office, my administration tolerated your views even when we disagreed. 
We did not hound your souls. 
In similar vein, we encourage you to continue to hold all governments accountable as you have done in the past for it is your right to do so.

My brothers and sisters, I have had a relatively long and fulfilling journey of public life and service during which I have had the privilege to serve in various capacities. 
I have had my ups and downs like all humans, but I have at all times promoted unity and inclusion and not division; and I have always placed the interest and well-being of Ghana first. 
I will continue to do same even at this moment and beyond.
We have only one nation, Ghana, and we must work together to ensure progress and growth of our dear nation. 
We can only do this, if we ensure equality, freedom and justice for all our citizens.
Long Live the NDC!
Long Live Ghana!
I thank you all for your attention.
May God bless our homeland Ghana.
My Brothers and Sisters;
Allow me to begin by expressing my deepest gratitude to you for your tremendous support, which you expressed overwhelmingly and convincingly at the polls.
There is no doubt that Ghanaians from every region of this great nation voted for change—and we did so in both the Presidential and the Parliamentary elections.
I am a staunch believer in the experiment of democracy, the system of governance that allows the ultimate decision-making power to rest in the hands of you, the good people of Ghana.
We, the people who, with an eye toward to future we would like for our dear country, elect representatives to go forward and realize that vision.
Government serves at the choice, direction, and pleasure of the people of this great nation.
And I have had the honor and privilege to serve my country in all levels of government.
When, in 2016, at the end of my first full term as President I ran for re-election as an incumbent candidate, I respected the will of the people.
I conceded, stepped aside, and set in motion a peaceful transfer of power—because I understood that it was the will of the people.
And if we are to progress as a nation, if we are to live up to the inheritance of our history, one for which people have paid the ultimate price—that sacred verdict of the people must be respected.
It must be protected. 
It has been my pledge throughout my time of service as a representative to the good people of Ghana to do exactly that.
And that it why I stand before you tonight unwilling to accept the fictionalized results of a flawed election.
My Brothers and Sisters, it is important to remember that the government that is in power controls all of the state resources and oversees all of the state’s institutions.
The line he treads between his loyalty to the power that is held by the people, and by his own desire to hold on to power, can be a thin one indeed.
We went into the 2020 Presidential and Parliamentary elections with assurances from the Electoral Commission and the relevant state actors that it would be conducted in an atmosphere free from fear, and that it would be fair, transparent, and credible. Unfortunately, that has not been the case.
What we witnessed across the country from Monday December 7, 2020 exposed a deliberate plan to manipulate and predetermine the results of the election in favour of the incumbent candidate, Nana Akufo-Addo, who, as so happens, controls all of the state resources and oversees the state’s institutions.
Despite all of the ruling party’s inducements, use of monetary enticements, and other such schemes on a scale never before seen in this country, the good people of this country understood what was at stake, and it was clear, as the result of the votes that were legally cast that the National Democratic Congress (NDC) won the Presidential and Parliamentary elections.
No amount of trickery, sleight of hand, or obfuscation will erase that reality.
I am extremely proud of our parliamentary candidates who have earned for themselves the title of “giant elephant killers.” 
We went into the Parliamentary election with a deficit of 63 seats.
We made up for our 2016 losses and we are now set to become the majority in Parliament. 
This historic feat after one term demonstrates the strength of our great party, and the strength of the mandate given to us by the good people of Ghana to lead.
In respect of the Presidential elections: the facts and figures available to the us from pink sheets and other evidence that has unfolded across the country, indicate that numerous steps have been taken to manipulate the results of the election in favour of the incumbent President.
This calls into question the credibility of one of our most important institutional pillars of democracy—the Electoral Commission.
It is now obvious to many objective minds that the Chairperson of the Electoral Commission has been used to manipulate results from the various constituencies and in that process seek to subvert the sovereign will of the Ghana People.
My Brothers and Sisters, one matter requires special mention. 
The use of the military in this election is unprecedented.
Armed forces featured heavily as an intimidating measure to reverse election results, and they continue to be used in the same intimidating role to insist on recounts in areas in which the incumbent has lost whilst arm-twisting election officers during these supposed recounts.
We will not accept anything short of a declaration of the legitimate results, which point to an NDC Parliamentary Majority.
My Brothers and Sisters, advisedly, since the inception of the Fourth Republic, final election results have always been declared within 72 hours to allow for a thorough and diligent collation.
Surprisingly, this Electoral Commission Chairperson announced, quite suspiciously and for reasons known to her, a hurried 24-hour deadline, which as we all know could not, and would not, be met.
The Chairperson of the EC, in less than 24 hours after her declaration, has admitted that she has made unacceptable errors, which go to the heart of the entire electoral process and cast deep doubt on the credibility of the announced outcome.
The Electoral Commission of Ghana has never brought its credibility to this historic low at such a crucial moment of election result declaration. 
In fact, the litany of irregularities and blatant attempts at rigging for a candidate is obvious and most embarrassing.
Ghana has come too far in our democracy, in our transparency, and in our well-earned international reputation for free and fair and nonviolent elections, to find ourselves here, where we are with this election.
As has been announced by our party, the National Democratic Congress: We are unable to accept the outcome of the election as declared by the Electoral Commission Chairperson, Mrs. Jean Mensah. 
Those results are flawed and discredited.
When it comes to the parliamentary elections, the NDC has a working majority of one hundred and forty 140 seats. 
What has happened since, was a deliberate attempt, targeting five (5) of the 140 seats, to steal and, thus, subvert the people’s verdict. 
A closer look and detailed examination of the constituency specific facts cast very dark clouds on our democracy.
Allow me to speak in specifics, so our claims are known to all.
In Sefwi Wiawso, the results were declared without the contents of one ballot box being counted.
The parties had agreed that an issue of alleged over-voting should be referred to the collation centre to be resolved. 
The ballot box mysteriously disappeared enroute to the collation centre.
Nevertheless, results were declared in favour of the NPP Candidate.
In Upper Denkyira West, the EC official deferred the declaration of results because of death threats. 
The results favour the NDC candidate as has been confirmed earlier today.
In Sene West, a ballot box was snatched, and the culprit apprehended. 
The seal of the NPP must have dislodged in the ensuing scuffle. 
That of the NDC and the Electoral Commission were intact.
However, NPP would not allow the contents of the ballot box to be counted and added to the lot because it would obviously favour the NDC.
In Techiman South, the NDC won quite clearly, but for whatever unknown reason, the military was invited. 
In the ensuing scuffle two people were shot and killed by the military. 
A third person who sustained injuries has now been pronounced dead.
Three Ghanaians who wanted nothing more than for their country to fulfill its promise of democracy have lost their lives—at the hands of the military that is meant to safeguard their rights as citizens. 
They include Abdallah Ayaric- 18 years and Tajudeen Alhassan- 39 years.
The results have allegedly been strangely declared for the NPP, even though the EC Chair claims to have left Techiman South out of her declaration.
After a review of our pink sheets for Techiman South, we can confirm that NDC won the parliamentary seat as follows: NDC—50,417 and NPP—49,825.
In the Eastern Region, the results in the Presidential Elections, which were collated and signed by all the parties were not the same ones that were transmitted from the Region to the Electoral Commission offices in Accra. 
The padded figures have since been exposed.
The Ashanti Region provides fundamental problems that require further investigation and an electoral audit.
Evidence gathered across board shows that the aggregates on the summary sheets of some constituencies do not reflect the individual results on the polling station pink sheets.
You may also recall that prior to December 7, 2020, there were complaints that ballot papers thumb-printed in favour of Candidate Nana Akufo-Addo were found at various locations.
In Bantama for instance, it was noticed that the portion of the pink sheets reserved for recording the number of persons biometrically verified was not filled on a large number of pink sheets.
When our agents requested for the biometric machines to confirm the recorded results, they were denied access, with the explanation that they were recorded in a book, access to which was also denied them.
My Brothers and Sisters, these are serious issues, ones that attack the very foundation of our democracy and our rights as citizens of this sovereign nation to elect our representatives, and to have a say in who leads our government.
It may interest you to know that since the inception of the Fourth Republic, agents of the political parties represented in the collation room go through a settled procedure by which a declaration of final results are made.
This involves the production of constituency by constituency results, which are then scrutinised by the agents and after their consent, the said results are then announced.
Unfortunately, this time round under this Electoral Commissioner, Jean Mensah, a different system was adopted, one in which bulk regional results were provided without supportive pink sheet data by which agents could validate the accuracy of the result.
Consequently, not a single pink sheet from the constituencies supporting the bulk regional collation was provided. 
This is in direct violation of Regulations 3 and 44 of the Public Elections Regulations, 2020. (C.I. 127). 
Little wonder that the Chairperson managed to obtain a cumulative figure of more than 100%.
On account of this, my party is confident that what has happened is a violation of the law, a violation of due process and therefore tantamount to an illegality. 
It is also a violation of an understanding we hold dear in this country—the understanding that this is not a dictatorship, or a monarchy run by a single family for the benefit of that family.
Ghana belongs to the people of Ghana—all of the people of Ghana. We would like to urge the media, civil society and all election observer missions to be resolute and present a fair and accurate account of what has transpired over this period.
We request of the international community to remain engaged in what is happening in Ghana and to take careful note of the current threat that is being waged to our democracy, our freedom, and our way of life.
To all NDC members and those who voted for us, I appeal to you not to be intimidated or cowed to submit to a dishonest process in the face of overwhelming evidence that supports the justness of our cause.
I extend my deep condolences to the families of all who were killed simply because they were determined to protect their votes from those whose thirst for power outweighs their love of country.
Let us all please rise to observe a minute’s silence in their honour. My Brothers and Sisters, I know dark moments like these can make us question our resolve and confidence in the promise and potential of Ghana and our democracy and institutions.
I choose to be a determined optimist based on my personal article of faith formed by long service to my country, including service in the high office of President.
I urge you all to keep your confidence in Ghana and keep betting on our democratic experiment.
This is a test of our ability within this democratic system to rise to the occasion and seek redress, to right all wrongs, to seek justice, to make every vote count and to respect the sovereign will of the people. 
Let us not fail this test.
Let history look back and be proud of how we united and stood up to fight for the people’s fundamental right to freely elect their leaders devoid of crude political manipulation.
It is for this reason that my colleagues and I in the NDC, will not accept what we know to be a fraudulent outcome of these elections. 
We will take all legitimate steps to reverse this travesty of justice.
Finally, let me assure our teeming supporters and millions of Ghanaians who voted for this change, which has been stolen – the real stolen verdict – that we are beefing up capacity in the constituencies, where the ruling NPP is seeking to overturn our Parliamentary victories already chalked.
We are deploying an additional crack teams of lawyers and senior Party officials to support them. Also, in order not to leave any further infractions unaccounted for, the NDC will continue its meticulous audit of all presidential pink sheets to ensure that the verdict of the people is upheld.
These steps will surely lead to our next line of actions within the constraints of our democratic governance process.
We want to send a caution to the EC that in line with Regulation 47 of CI 127, they should ensure that election data is preserved for a year, after elections.
Let me assure you, my dear voter, your vote will count.
The voice of the people is the voice of God; so, let’s go forth knowing that God is on our side and if God be for us who can be against us!
Thank you and do have a goodnight.
Fellow Ghanaians, good evening.
I am speaking to you tonight from Peduase Lodge, after having just completed the last Cabinet Retreat of Government for this year, and I thank you for allowing me into your homes once again
It is a little over seven (7) months ago, since I started providing updates on the measures Government was putting in place in response to the novel Coronavirus disease. 
I have provided, so far, seventeen (17) updates, which have demonstrated the co-ordinated approach we initiated towards winning the battle against the pandemic. 
We can safely say that the benefits are showing.
During my last update, a month ago, we had a total of five hundred and seven (507) active cases. 
Forty-five thousand, two hundred and fifty-eight (45,258) persons had recovered, and two hundred and ninety-seven (297) persons had, unfortunately, died. 
As at Friday, 16th October, the number of active cases has declined further to three hundred and ninety-eight (398), with forty-six thousand, six hundred and sixty-four (46,664) persons fully recovered from the virus, putting our recovery rate at 98.5%. 
Thirteen (13) more deaths have occurred, bringing the total number of deaths, tragically, to three hundred and ten (310), out of a total number of five hundred and ten thousand, and seventy-four (510,074) persons tested. 
The rate of death, 0.5%, continues to remain very low.
When you take a close look at the measures some other countries are having to take, including imposing night-time curfews and partial lockdowns, declaring state of emergencies, limiting the numbers of people permitted at public gatherings, and mandatorily fining persons for not wearing masks, all in the bid to contain the second wave of the virus, we, in Ghana, have been spared all these developments and restrictions. 
We must, thus, be doing something right.
In fact, our favourable situation at the moment is thanks to the effectiveness of Government policies, the co-operation of you, the Ghanaian people, and, ultimately, to the grace of God.
The science and data tell us that the trajectory of the virus in Ghana mirrors that of an epidemic with reduced disease activity. Our daily infection rates are no longer in the hundreds as they were sometime back. 
Presently, they are in the tens, averaging twenty-five (25) new cases per day, in the course of last week. This is in sharp contrast with what is happening in the countries that are experiencing a second wave of infections, where, in some instances, new infections and hospitalizations are, sadly, in the thousands per day.
In spite of our successes, I would like to reiterate that this virus remains something of a mystery, and we should always rather err on the side of caution, and continue to observe the protocols that have brought us to where we are.
As President of the Republic, I assured you of my continuing commitment to limiting and stopping the importation of the virus, containing its spread, providing adequate care for the sick, slowing down community spread, reducing the impact of the virus on social and economic life, and using the opportunity afforded by this pandemic to expand our domestic production capacity, and deepen our self-reliance. 
I remain committed to these objectives, and I will not stray from them.
Fellow Ghanaians, we all know that the emergence of the virus on our shores came from abroad, necessitating the closure of our borders, by land, air and sea, in March 2020. 
Following the provision of testing facilities, which ensure the speed and accuracy of COVID-19 testing, Kotoka International Airport was reopened on 1st September 2020. 
It has been six (6) weeks since the reopening, and a total of thirty thousand, five hundred and sixty-four (30,564) passengers have been tested, from which ninety-two (92) have tested positive. 
All ninety-two (92) are asymptomatic cases, whose status, but for the test, would not have been detected, and would have spread the disease amongst the rest of the population. 
I am aware that some are calling for Government to extend the PCR negative test period before boarding the flight from three (3) days to at least five (5) days. 
I believe, in the context of the second wave of infections that is engulfing so many countries of Europe and America, that we have to insist on the three (3) day period. 
It is better to be safe than sorry.
Indeed, across the country, Government has seen to the expansion of COVID-19 testing facilities, from the initial (2) to sixteen (16), which include those of private sector providers. 
Additionally, some hospitals across the country have been equipped with the capacity to test for COVID-19. 
We now have more dedicated treatment facilities for dealing with the disease, and have also improved considerably the availability of PPEs for our health workers. 
It is reassuring that we no longer have news of shortages or lack of PPEs.
Through a public-private partnership, our nation is the beneficiary of a one hundred (100) bed Infectious Diseases Centre, located at the Ga East Municipal Hospital, with plans in the offing to replicate it in Kumasi, Takoradi and Tamale. In as much as we currently have no patients at the isolation centres, I express the gratitude of the nation, once again, to private and religious bodies, who provided their facilities to support the fight. 
These laudable efforts have manifested the collective will of the majority of Ghanaians to rally together, irrespective of ethnic, religious or partisan political considerations, to help win this fight.
It is important for me to stress that the cost of providing for the care of most persons stricken with the virus is being borne by Government, ensuring that persons who tested positive, and were in need of healthcare, received it promptly.
The strategic, controlled, progressive, safe easing of restrictions continues, with its over-arching objective being to restore our lives and economy back to normal. SHS 2 and JHS 2 students are back in school, as are some students in tertiary institutions and colleges. 
Indeed, the academic year for new and continuing University students will commence from January 2021. Football, the passion of the nation, will return in two-weeks; private burials, still, with a maximum of one hundred (100) persons, are being performed; and the limit on the numbers of persons who can attend conferences, workshops and award events, has been lifted, subject to the strict adherence of COVID-19 protocols.
On the economic front, according to the Bank of Ghana, the Ghanaian economy is recovering faster than initially anticipated. 
Consumer confidence is bouncing back strongly and is today above pre-lockdown levels. 
Business confidence has also increased, reflecting the improving macroeconomic conditions, stability in the exchange rate, lower input prices, moderation in lending rates, and positive industry prospects. Consumer spending, industrial consumption of electricity, and construction activities have all reached pre-lockdown levels, whilst tourist arrivals and port harbour activity are gradually edging upwards.
So, I urge all of you, my fellow Ghanaians, to continue to comply with the strict hygiene, mask wearing and social distancing protocols that have become part of our daily routines. 
This is the surest way by which we can defeat the virus, and avoid a second wave of infections. 
The outlook on our battle against COVID-19 remains optimistic, for which we thank God and you, the Ghanaian people. 
It is important that we maintain this positive position, especially with a few weeks to the holding of the December 7 presidential and parliamentary elections.
I have said before, let us continue to look out for one another, and remain each other’s keeper, and I am confident that, by doing so, we will emerge victorious in the fight against COVID-19. 
Zero active cases must be the goal, and I have no doubt that, together, and with the help of God, this too shall pass, for the Battle is still the Lord’s.
May God bless us all and our homeland Ghana, and make her great and strong.
I thank you for your attention.
Mr Speaker, I am glad to be here with you again in this august House, the Parliament of our Republic, to perform, for the third time, the pleasant duty of fulfilling my constitutional obligation, by giving Honourable Members and the Ghanaian people a message on the state of the nation.
In accordance with protocol and convention, it is good to see that First Lady Rebecca Akufo-Addo, Vice President Mahamudu Bawumia, Second Lady Samira Bawumia, Spouse of Mr. Speaker, Mrs. Alberta Ocquaye, Chief Justice Sophia Akuffo, and Justices of the Supreme Court, Chairperson Nana Otuo Siriboe II, and Members of the Council of State, Chief of Defence Staff Lt. Gen O.B. Akwa, Inspector General of Police David Asante Apeatu, and Service Chiefs, are all present. 
Mr. Speaker, the House is duly honoured by the welcome attendance of the former Presidents of the Republic, their Excellencies Jerry John Rawlings and John Dramani Mahama, former First Lady, Her Excellency Nana Konadu Agyemang Rawlings, and the Dean and Members of the Diplomatic Corps.
The House should also take note of the passing last year of some distinguished citizens of our country – Vice President, Kwesi Bekoe Amissah Arthur; UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan; Senior Minister, J.H Mensah; Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice V.C.R.A.C Crabbe; PNDC Secretary, K.B Asante, and the Poet Laureate, Prof. Atukwei Okai. 
May their souls rest and abide in the bosom of the Almighty until the last day of the Resurrection when we shall all meet again. Amen!
Mr. Speaker, I hope the House will bear with me, as I have a lot to say, and I may take quite some time.
A month ago, almost to the day, I was in Yendi, fittingly attired as a self-proclaimed Prince of Dagbon, Prince Abudani, the first of that lineage, to witness the installation of Yaa-Na Mahama Abukari II as the overlord of Dagbon.
Thousands of our compatriots were there to share in the joy of the occasion. 
It was a ceremony that many had despaired we would ever see, but a new Yaa-Na, accepted by the two gates of Abudu and Andani, was installed on that day.
It brought to an end decades of feuding that laid low the proud and ancient kingdom of Dagbon. 
It was a happy day, and it marked the climax of a long, tortuous journey, and a hard grind on the part of many people through the years.
Two years ago, when I had the honour to become President of our country, I decided to summon all the resources of the state and my own energies, and make a concerted effort through the dedicated, patriotic Committee of Eminent Chiefs that had been working on the problem for the past 17 years, to find an acceptable solution. With the blessings of the Almighty, we have had a breakthrough, and this led to the month-long series of events that climaxed in the installation on 25th January, 2019.
Mr Speaker, I was not looking to be accorded any special title or accolade, and I was certainly not looking for praise. 
I did want to do whatever I could to make sure that this long running sore, that was such a blight on Dagbon and Ghana, and which dragged down the development process in our country, could be resolved, and we could move on.
We had spent enough emotional stress, enough time, enough energy and enough money on the Dagbon dispute; 
I wanted that amount of emotion, that time, that energy and that money to be spent on making Dagbon and Ghana prosperous.
I am grateful for the hard work and wisdom of the eminent chiefs, Otumfuo Osei Tutu II, Asantehene, the Nayiri, Naa Bohugu Abdulai Mahami Sheriga, Overlord of Mamprugu, and the Yagbonwura, Tuntumba Boresa Sulemana Jakpa, Overlord of the Gonja State, all of whom I salute, and for the support of many people in this House on both sides, and I pray that we all continue to build on this achievement and midwife the process until peace becomes part of the fabric of Dagbon.
The Minister for Chieftaincy and Religious Affairs intends to use the momentum of the Dagbon settlement to tackle the other protracted chieftaincy disputes in the country, hopefully, for resolution.
Mr. Speaker, in order to reinforce and support the process of reconciliation and the restoration of peace in Dagbon, I have decided that, this year, the official 62nd Independence Day celebration will be held in Tamale, on 6th March. 
This will be the first time in our nation’s history that the celebration is being held outside of our national capital of Accra. 
I am, very much, looking forward to it.
Mr Speaker, this past week, the grounds of Jubilee House, the seat of our nation’s presidency, have resounded to a lot of celebrations, as we marked the handing over ceremonies of the constitutional instruments to the six new regions in our country. 
It has taken 18 months of very hard work and some complicated manoeuvring to get to where we are today.
Again, the requests and agitations for creation of new regions have been long-standing, and we have somehow never got around to dealing with them. 
The first petition for the creation of Oti region, for example, dates back to 1954.  
Mr Speaker, it was time to deal with these outstanding issues so that we could get ahead with the business of developing our country. 
The creation of the six new regions opens up the country and ensures that no one feels cut off from the centre.
Mr Speaker, no corner of this country is being left behind. 
It is for this reason that we have created the three development authorities. 
It is for this reason that we have re-aligned the national budget to ensure that every constituency gets the cedi equivalent of $1 million a year for priority projects.
I am able to state, and every member of this House should be able to testify, that work is going on in each of the 275 constituencies around the country. 
The water and toilet provision segment of the Special Development Initiatives is taking place in every constituency. 
We came into office with a plan, Mr Speaker, and I am happy to say that we are working and delivering in accordance with that plan.
Mr Speaker, now that the regions are in place, we have the singular opportunity to avoid the old mistakes of urban planning that have made some of our towns and cities such unattractive places. 
The lessons would seem to show that the political capital does not necessarily have to be the site of all the institutions, and this would guide us in the setting up of the new regions. Indeed, when designating the capitals of the new regions, at the ceremonies at Jubilee House last week, I made it clear that Government is committed to the equitable distribution of government structures and institutions across the regions. 
We will keep to the commitment.
Mr. Speaker, we have also embarked on another aspect of our ambitious decentralisation programme, that is the exercise to expand full democracy to local government. 
In addition to the creation of thirty-eight (38) Municipal and District Assemblies, and the elevation of twenty-nine (29) Districts to the status of Municipalities, the Bill for the amendment of article 55(3) of the Constitution has been gazetted, to pave way for the direct, popular election, on partisan basis, of Metropolitan, Municipal and District Chief Executives (MMDCEs). 
It is expected that a Referendum will be held on the Bill, alongside the Unit Assembly and District level elections in 2019. 
I am calling, respectfully, for a repetition of the bi-partisan support, that made possible the hugely successful outcomes in the referenda for the new regions, to ensure the success of the impending referendum. 
Furthermore, a multidisciplinary panel of experts is being assembled to plan, cost, schedule and help implement a roadmap for the election of MMDCEs. 
We are committed to devolving more and more power to the Ghanaian people.
Mr Speaker, the economy is at the heart of all we seek to do, it is the success of the economy that will guarantee an improvement in the quality of the life of our people. 
I believe we are all now agreed that the fundamentals have to be sound if the economy is to flourish. 
We have just concluded a programme with the IMF, and, with continuing discipline, we shall sign off from the deal in April. 
This is the seventeenth time Ghana has had to go to the IMF in the sixty-two years of her independence.
Mr Speaker, we cannot make the progress we all desire unless we are consistent and disciplined in the management of our economy. 
The yo-yo nature of the boom and bust has not helped us achieve our goal of sustained prosperity, and lift us out of poverty. 
We have gone through another round of painful impositions to get to where we are today with healthy fundamentals.
Mr. Speaker, production in the economy, as measured by real GDP growth, has picked up very strongly in the last two years. From 3.4% in 2016, real GDP growth increased to 8.1% in 2017. 
In 2018, provisional data for the first three quarters indicate a strong real GDP growth of 6.0%, higher than the annual target of 5.6%. 
Real GDP growth for 2019 is forecast at 7.6%. Ghana’s recent GDP growth has placed it amongst the highest in the world.  
The fiscal deficit is being brought down from the 7.3% of rebased GDP in 2016 to a provisional 3.9% of GDP at the end of 2018. 
The debt-to-GDP ratio has declined from the 56.6% of GDP in 2016 to 54.8% at the end of 2018.
Inflation has dropped from 15.4%, at the end of 2016, to 9% in January this year, the lowest in six years, as announced by the Ghana Statistical Service last week. 
Interest rates are declining, and so is the Bank of Ghana Monetary Policy Rate. 
Our trade balance account, for the first time in more than a decade, recorded a surplus in 2017, and is expected to remain in surplus. 
In May 2018, a US$2 billion Eurobond was issued for 30 and 10 years of US$1 billion each with coupon rates of 8.627% and 7.625% respectively, and these were the lowest rate and the longest maturity in our history, signifying confidence in the economy. 
It comes as no surprise, therefore, that, today, Ghana is the leading recipient of Foreign Direct Investment in West Africa.
Mr Speaker, these are good figures, and as we prepare to exit from the IMF programme in April, we expect the impressive figures and good performance to continue. 
We are very much aware that this is not the first time we have had such a good set of figures, but we are determined to do things differently this time around; we have imposed on ourselves fiscal discipline, we are paying off legacy debts and deepening good governance practices and business confidence is growing. 
We will maintain the discipline, and bring progress to our country.
We have decided to institute a legal framework to help with the discipline. 
We have passed the Fiscal Responsibility Law, Act 982, capping the deficit at 5% by law, and some two weeks ago, I inaugurated the Presidential Fiscal Responsibility Advisory Council, chaired by the eminent, respected economist, Dr. Paul Acquah, former Governor of the Bank of Ghana and former Deputy Director of the Africa Department of the IMF, with some of the finest and most reputable economists of our country as members. 
Its purpose is to advise the President on relevant, additional measures needed to maintain fiscal discipline.
We have done this because we know the temptation to go on a spending binge will always be there, we know election years will come around and there will be pressure on government to splurge, and persuasive arguments will be made that you have to stay in government to be able to implement your programmes. 
However, I am bent on running a responsible administration, mindful of the next generation, and not, merely, the next election.
In the meantime, our efforts are bearing some fruits, and the world has taken notice of the improvement in our economic fundamentals. 
In September last year, after almost a decade, we received our first Sovereign Credit rating upgrade from Standard and Poor’s (S&P). 
This upgrade saw us move from B minus to B with a stable outlook. In December 2018, we also hosted the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, Christine Lagarde, a visit that was historical in every sense, as this was the first time that an IMF Managing Director had ever stepped foot on Ghanaian soil.
Mr Speaker, revenue mobilization poses the biggest challenge in the management of our economy, with the tax exemption policy in particular proving to be an achilles heel, and a growing menace to fiscal stability and revenue generation. 
In the last eight years, tax exemptions in respect of import duty, import VAT, import NHIL and domestic VAT have grown from three hundred and ninety-two million Ghana cedis (GH¢392 million), that is 0.6% of GDP in 2010, to GH¢4.66 billion, that is 1.6% of GDP in 2018.
These figures do not include exemptions from the payment of corporate and individual income taxes, concessions on tax rates, petroleum tax reliefs, customs tax exemptions enjoyed by diplomatic missions, and waiver of processing charges at the ports.
If we continue at this rate, in less than sixteen years, half of Ghana’s revenue base will be given away as tax exemptions.
Mr. Speaker, this is not sustainable, and we intend to do something about it to reverse the trend, by introducing suitable measures that may disrupt the easy and comfortable arrangements that many have become accustomed to, but which we have to take to ensure that we have the firmest of foundations for the economic take-off that has escaped us for so long.
Mr. Speaker, workers in the public sector begun the year on a good note, after receiving a 10% increase in their salaries, on top of the 11% increment of 2018. Forty-one thousand (41,000) workers in the informal sector were also enrolled onto Tier-3 pensions schemes, with pensioners seeing an average increment of 11% in their monthly pension incomes, with the lowest income bracket receiving a 14.7% increment. 
Last year, the Youth Employment Agency (YEA) engaged some one hundred and seven thousand (107,000) youth in various employment modules, with an additional one hundred and twenty-five thousand (125,000) set to be engaged this year.
Mr. Speaker, to consolidate further the relations between the social partners, in the post IMF era, Government will shortly sign a landmark social partnership agreement with Organised Labour/the Trades Union Congress, the Ghana Employers’ Association and Government, represented by the Ministries of Finance and Employment and Labour Relations, to provide a medium for building a sense of cohesion, trust, self-management, frank and open discussions to champion the course of development.
Mr. Speaker, the fight against child labour has chalked some modest success. 
Through the implementation of the second phase of the National Plan of Action (2017-2021), Ghana has been moved up from the Tier-2 Watch List position of the Trafficking in Persons (TIP) Report to Tier-2 in 2018.
Mr. Speaker, our ports remain important national assets. 
And we must manage them to improve trade and to the benefit of all Ghanaians. Government has introduced reforms at the port to improve efficiency. 
Among others, we introduced the paperless operations at the ports and goods can be cleared within 1 to 3 days. 
Going forward, we have set ourselves the goal of making our ports the most competitive in West Africa. 
In this regard, some further reforms would soon be announced by Government to enhance the competitive position of Ghana’s ports.
Ghana may be the toast of the world because of its economy. 
We have all accepted that these economic fundamentals are the foundation upon which our people will become prosperous, but if they are uneducated or poorly educated, then prosperity will continue to elude them. Mr Speaker, a sudden injection of oil revenue or a rise or fall in the price of gold or cocoa can make a dramatic difference to your financial situation, but there are no shortcuts to having an educated and skilled workforce. 
We have no choice but to provide our young people with quality education and lifelong learning opportunities for every Ghanaian. It is the only way to ensure prosperity, and to protect our democracy. 
We are not sparing any efforts to make education in Ghana of the best quality, and fit for the needs of the 21st century.
In September 2019, a new standards-based curriculum will be rolled out from kindergarten to Class 6 in primary schools. 
This curriculum has drawn upon the best practices from all over the world, and will focus on making Ghanaian children confident, innovative, creative-thinking, digitally-literate, well-rounded, patriotic citizens. Mathematics, Science, Reading, 
Writing and Creativity are, therefore, at the heart of this new curriculum.
Mr Speaker, poverty should not be an excuse for any Ghanaian child not to reach their full potential. 
It, therefore, warms my heart that we are now able to say that education in the public sector is free from Kindergarten to Senior High School, and, that this year, legislation would be passed to redefine basic education to include Senior High School.
Young people have to have options on which career path they choose, and I am glad to announce that all is set for the construction of 10 state-of-the-art Technical and Vocational Education Training (TVET) Centres this year. 
For far too long, we have preached about the importance of TVET without doing very much to demonstrate this importance. We send or urge young people to go to poorly equipped TVET centres, and we are surprised that they are not keen. 
The new TVET centres would be world class, and attractive to assure young people that they are not being sent to second best options.
We are also bent on demystifying science, mathematics and technology. 
Ten Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) centres are being built around the country to provide support for the introduction of STEM into basic education after the completion of a successful pilot phase. 
We can be sure, therefore, that Ghana’s young people will be able to acquire skills that would put them at par with their peers anywhere in the world. 
The importance of science, technology and innovation has led me to appoint a Presidential Advisory Council on Science, Technology and Innovation (PACSTI) to advise the President on how to infuse the application of science and technology in the development of our nation, headed by a distinguished scientist, Prof. Edward Ayensu.
Mr Speaker, we shall bring before Parliament this year, a tertiary education policy Bill that will bring all the public universities under a common law, and make the administration of the public universities less cumbersome.
Mr. Speaker, a well-motivated and remunerated teacher is at the centre of our quality education and comprehensive teacher policy. 
This has started with the upgrading of the initial teacher education certificate to degree status, and the move to put the teaching profession up there with other professions in terms of respect and exclusivity. 
Currently, many of our teachers, who complete the three-year Diploma in Basic Education (DBE) at our Colleges of Education, go on, later, to do a two-year top-up first degree, by distance learning, at the University of Cape Coast. 
This means that, in addition to the extra amount of money spent on getting a degree, it will take them not less than five years to get one. 
With the introduction of the 4-year Bachelor of Education degree, teacher trainees would now obtain their first degree at the end of their schooling. 
This ensures that they enter the teaching service as university graduates.
Mr. Speaker, when our children master the connection between science and their everyday lives, we would reach the stage in Ghana where we would be rid of the many diseases, borne of filth and poor hygiene, that are still part of our lives. 
In pursuing these goals, we need to remind ourselves repeatedly that health is wealth, and it is only a healthy population that can make Ghana prosperous.
In May 2018, Ghana won accolades at the World Health Assembly for having eradicated Trachoma, an eye disease that has plagued us for a long time. 
Today, our NHIS is buoyant. 
Government has paid up the GH¢1.2 billion arrears we inherited, and brought the operations of the NHIS back to life. 
On 19th December, 2018, the introduction of mobile renewal of membership was launched. 
Since then, there have been, on average, seventy thousand (70,000) members renewing their membership every week, by dialling *929# on any mobile phone network. Soon, in collaboration with the National Identification Authority, Ghanaians would be able to register, renew and access health care services using the Ghana Card. We have to thank Dr. Samuel Annor’s brief, but productive stewardship as CEO of the National Health Insurance Authority for that. 
I wish him well in his retirement.
To deliver healthcare to Ghanaians more efficiently, in 2018, Government granted financial clearance for the recruitment of eleven thousand, one hundred and eighteen (11,018) health personnel to increase existing clinical staff. 
To augment the efforts of clinical staff, in September, 2018, the Ministry of Health received further financial clearance to employ fourteen thousand, five hundred and twenty-four (14,254) Nurse Assistants (Clinical and Preventive). 
These nurse assistants belong to the tranche that passed their exams in 2016 from Government Health Training Institutions, and have commenced work by 1st February, 2019. 
The Ministry of Health is working to obtain financial clearance for the recruitment of the 2017 and 2018 graduates.
The health delivery system will be significantly strengthened by the expected arrival in June of 275 ambulances, i.e. one per constituency, to make treatment of emergency cases more effective. 
Drone technology has also been introduced into that system to help deliver essential medicine, blood and blood products to remote communities.
We still face problems of inadequate infrastructure in our health establishments. 
We have problems of numerous structures at various stages of completion that cannot be finished and brought into use, because newer structures are being started, and there is no money to finish the ones started earlier. 
Mr Speaker, again, this is a long-standing problem that is a mark of our underdevelopment.
We will not ignore or sweep the problem under the carpet. We are dealing with it, and will complete them.
Ghana’s hardworking nurses and doctors would do their best, as they have always done, to make sure we get the best health care, but it behoves on each one of us to look after ourselves better. 
Apart from exercising and taking our regular health check-ups seriously, it is imperative that we eat healthy diets to prevent diseases that are caused by poor choices of nutrition.
Mr Speaker, when we are dealing with matters of good health, we must necessarily move on to shelter and housing. 
There is an acute shortage of user-friendly, decent housing for people in middle and low-income brackets in our country. 
This is a long-standing problem that gets worse with each passing day. 
It is time to tackle the issue and find a resolution. 
We are starting with the completion of the many abandoned projects dotted around the country. 
A consortium of local banks has raised 51 million dollars to fund the completion of the social housing units started by the Kufuor administration in 2006 at Koforidua, Tamale and Ho.
The Saglemi Housing Project, started under the last NDC government, is also high on our list of priorities this year. 
The five thousand (5,000) units it offers would boost our housing numbers. 
We are, therefore, establishing the value for money issues surrounding the project in order to reconcile the number of houses built with the schedule of payments made, and accelerate delivery.
The 2019 budget made provision for the construction of two hundred thousand (200,000) housing units, and a database of local and foreign developers has been created to help make this policy a reality. 
Land banks have also been secured in several towns across Ghana where factories, producing pre-fabricated building materials, can be sited for this huge construction effort. 
There are many well-intentioned projects that ended up pricing out the low-income earners, who were supposed to be their beneficiaries. 
We are determined to learn the lessons from past projects. 
The Ministry of Finance is working to launch a one billion Ghana cedi housing fund that would target low-income earners.
Government will continue with the other housing projects for the police, armed forces and government workers across the country, through agencies like the State Housing Corporation.
The most exciting news on the housing landscape, though, is the drafting of plans to regenerate Nima, which holds the dubious title of being Accra’s first slum. 
It has, of course, progressed very much since those early days, even if it has been unable to shake off the urban-slum title. 
I am a proud resident of Nima myself, and I am extremely excited that the regeneration plans will not dislodge or dispossess residents, but would rather transform Nima into a well-laid out residential area with full amenities. 
I am looking forward to it, good work that is being done by the Ministries of Inner City and Zongo Development and Works and Housing.
Another big problem is that of poor drainage in our towns and cities, which leads to flooding during the rainy season. 
Then, there is the serious problem of sea erosion along the coast that endangers the lives of our coastal people. 
It is time to deal with these long-term problems and find long-lasting solutions, and we are doing just that.
The Odawna Storm Drains in Accra, which have caused many tragedies over the years, are now being reengineered by a team of experts who will give it a permanent fix. 
The Dichemso Drainage System is also on our list of priorities, and a bid has been put out for experts to transform it into a more efficient system.
Our ongoing coastal protection projects are proceeding in Adjoa in the Western Region, Blekusu, New Takoradi phase II (Elmina), Dansoman, Axim and Dixcove. 
This year, we will also begin others in Amanful Kumah, Dansoman phase II, Komenda, Anomabo, Cape Coast, Mensah Guinea, Ningo Prampram, New Takoradi Phase III, Apam, Kokrobite, Bortianor, Blekusu Phase II and Aboadze-Shama Phase II, Maritime University, Nungua, Takoradi, Anyanui and Essipong.
Mr. Speaker, we are putting in place plans to avert the perennial flooding caused by the spillage of the Bagre dam, which has resulted in the constant loss of lives and property over the years. In the short-term, desilting of the White Volta will be undertaken this year, in conjunction with discussions with the Burkinabes to regulate the flow of the spillage, and mitigate its impact. 
The Ministry of Works and Housing will, in the coming week, receive a report on a feasibility study conducted by the Chinese company, SinoHydro, for the construction of a dam at Pwalugu, to serve as a receptacle to hold the volume of water spilled from the Bagre Dam for irrigation purposes, and also for the generation of electricity. 
This will be the permanent solution to the Bagre Dam problem. 
The requisite approvals will be sought by the Ministry from Cabinet and Parliament to permit the construction of the Pwalugu Dam.
Mr. Speaker, if there has been any Government that has been on the side of Persons with Disabilities, it is my Government. 
We have increased the share of the District Assemblies Common Fund to Persons with Disabilities from 2% to 3%, and we have also ensured the implementation of our pledge of employing 50% of the persons who manage the country’s toll booths from amongst Persons with Disabilities.
Mr. Speaker, we are continuing with initiatives to improve the Creative Arts Sector. 
We have also worked to finalise the Creative Arts Bill, leading to the setting up of the Creative Arts Fund. 
For the first time, in 2018, Government provided support to the Creative Arts Council, and the Creative Arts Masterclass, to build capacity of Creative Arts practitioners, has also commenced. 
The Eastern Regional Theatre has been completed, and work is currently ongoing towards the construction of the Kumasi theatre.
Mr Speaker, considering how often Ghana is in the news usually for good reasons, we have not been able to attract as many visitors to our country as we should. 
We are making a special effort from now onwards to attract tourists into our country. Under the See Ghana, Eat Ghana, Wear Ghana and Feel Ghana campaign, the Ghana Tourism Authority recorded a 20% growth since its launch to over six hundred thousand visitations to various tourist sites. 
The World Bank has approved a US$40 million grant to support the Tourism Ministry and its agencies to help upgrade tourist facilities.
In September 2018, in Washington D.C., in front of the Congressional Black Caucus of the United States Congress, I proclaimed 2019 as the “Year of Return”, commemorating the 400th anniversary of the arrival of the first 20 West African slaves in the Commonwealth of Virginia, in what was to become the United States of America. 
We intend to use the symbolism of this “Year of Return” to bring together Africans, persons of African descent, and all well-wishers and lovers of freedom to strengthen the commitment to ensuring that the blots on our history, i.e. the Transatlantic Slave Trade and slavery, never reoccur. 
In response to this proclamation, some seventy (70) African-American Hollywood celebrities visited Ghana in December 2018. 
The year-long campaign, being coordinated by the Ghana Tourism Authority, is expected to increase arrivals considerably.
Training across the entire tourism sector is also receiving priority. 
The Hospitality Training Institute has been renovated, and re-opened in July 2018 to provide needed training in the hospitality and tourism sectors. 
Under a Tourism Attractions Upgrade Project, several tourist sites, including Elmina Heritage Bay, Axim Fort St. Antonio, Assin Manso Slave River, Tetteh Quarshie Cocoa Farm, Bunso Arboretum, Kintampo Water Falls, are undergoing upgrades.  
A draft Legislative Instrument (LI) on Sites and Attractions is currently undergoing final stakeholder consultations. 
This will ensure world-class standards are set and maintained at all our tourism sites and attractions.
Mr. Speaker, the greatest attraction of our country is its people. 
Yes, we have castles and forts, we have water falls and dramatic mountain ranges, we have breath-taking beaches, and historical sites that reduce visitors to strong emotions, but it is the people of Ghana and our welcoming attitude that are the strongest attraction to visitors. 
We should never forget that we all have a responsibility to make visitors to our country feel welcome. 
In this “Year of Return”, when we have invited the world to visit, I would urge each one of us to make a special effort to make a visit to our country a memorable one. 
Our music, our foods, our clothes and the quintessential akwaaba smile will make a visitor to our country come back again and again.
Mr Speaker, but there are things that many of us do that would put off any visitor from visiting our country, no matter how attractive the geography or the history might be. 
I refer, especially, to some of our sanitation habits.
Mr Speaker, public resources must be channelled into ventures that generate wealth, and not spent on avoidable expenditures. 
The cost of clearing and cleaning up our cities and towns after those who litter has become prohibitive. 
The littering habit seems to be more predominant in the cities and urban areas, and, mercifully, largely absent in the villages.
Last year, I reiterated before you my pledge of improving sanitation in the country, and making Accra the cleanest city in Africa, by the end of my term. 
There has been a significant improvement in sanitation, even though, I acknowledge, more can be done. 
However, this is currently the state of play. 
We have witnessed an increase in the coverage of solid waste management, from 16.6% to 53%, and, over the course of last year, thirty-five thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two (35,862) household toilets were built, as opposed to one thousand, six hundred and ninety-eight (1,698) in 2016. 
We will intensify efforts at making Accra a clean city.
In 2019, apart from continuing with educating and sensitizing people, we intend to use the bye-laws to enforce cleanliness. 
The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Sanitation are working together to try sanitation offences. 
Persons who litter would be tried and punished, and so would those who steal litter bins from our streets.
We are launching a National Sanitation Brigade to help us carry this out, and, through this vehicle, we will not only keep our towns and cities clean, but will also provide jobs for our young people. 
Once waste is properly and efficiently managed, we then can explore how to use the waste collected to advance the economy of our nation.
A cursory look around our cities and towns would show us that plastic filth is our biggest problem. 
We intend to solve this problem through the internationally recognized priorities of waste: reduction first, followed by reuse, recycle, recovery and, lastly, disposal, which is to be avoided whenever possible.
Government has prepared a Plastics Management Policy, with the overarching aim of meeting the challenges of comprehensive plastics management. 
About 82% of Ghana’s plastics waste could be readily recovered and recycled with existing technologies into value-addition products in high demand locally and within the West African region.
A vibrant recycling industry in Ghana could recover nearly one million tonnes of waste plastics from the environment and landfills annually, to be recycled into basic-need products valued at GH¢2 billion per year, creating many jobs across the economy. Currently, extensive discussions are being concluded with investors on the most sustainable options available to rid Ghana of this plastic filth menace.
Mr Speaker, we are also tackling the problem of electronic waste head on. On August 20, 2018, I launched the National E-waste Program to mark the commencement of two key provisions of the Hazardous and Electronic Waste Control and Management Act, Act 917.
These provisions empower the External Service Provider (SGS) to verify, assess and collect the advance recycle eco fee on all electrical and electronic equipment from all exporting countries, and also to establish a state-of-the-art recycling facility at Agbogbloshie, whose construction will begin in April. 
Not only would we solve the problem of waste disposal in an environmentally-friendly manner, setting up the recycling facility will lead to the creation of over twenty thousand (20,000) direct jobs, through the establishment of associated holding centres in each regional capital and collection centres in each district.
Mr Speaker, it is unfortunate that, in 2019, we still have to revisit this topic, but, open defecation cannot be a characteristic of a country that is working to be transformed economically, and to be counted amongst the developed nations of the world. 
That is why it is absolutely imperative that we make a success of our One House-One-Toilet Policy.
The Community Led Total Sanitation (CLTS) Programme is being implemented in over four thousand, five hundred (4,500) communities in one hundred and thirty (130) districts to achieve Open Defecation Free (ODF) Communities.
Mr. Speaker, affordable and reliable energy is absolutely critical to realising our vision of economic transformation. 
I am happy to announce that gas production tripled during the year, from 100 to 300 million cubic feet per day. 
The Ministry of Energy is undertaking steps to remove the transmission bottlenecks, to ensure that Ghanaian gas can reach power plants located in the eastern part of the country, and I am confident that, by August this year, the situation would have been fully remedied to ensure Ghana uses locally produced gas for the bulk of its thermal power generation, saving substantial amounts of foreign exchange on imported fuels.
Government is committed to achieving an electricity generation mix that ensures diversity and security of energy supply. 
For this reason, we will continue to promote the deployment of renewable energy in line with our policy target of 10% renewables in the energy mix from the current 1%.
Another justification for renewable energy is that, in spite of Ghana’s excess electricity generation capacity, we can still not achieve our universal access target because there are many Ghanaian communities, especially those on islands and lake sides, that cannot be reached through the national grid. 
For example, there are currently two hundred (200) island and two thousand (2,000) lake side communities that require mini-grids from renewable sources to meet their energy needs.
To reduce government’s expenditure on utilities, and also promote the use of solar power for government and public buildings, the Ministry of Energy initiated the Solar Rooftop Programme. 
The Ministry is leading by example with the installation of a 65-kilowatt solar rooftop system at its premises.
Jubilee House will also be powered, as from August this year, by solar energy, as an example to other public institutions. 
In fact, government’s target is to install up to 200 megawatts of distributed solar power by 2030 in both residential and non-residential facilities in order to reduce Government’s liabilities to ECG (PDS Ghana Ltd).
Renewable energy has also become a necessary addition to our energy sector because it has increasingly become cheaper, and is key to the implementation of our international obligations under Sustainable Development Goal 7, on access to affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy, as well as Sustainable Development Goal 13, on urgent action to combat climate change.
There has been good news with the recent announcement by Aker Energy of one of the biggest oil finds in Africa. 
Mr Speaker, this has led me to think that an NPP government must be good for Ghana. 
After many, many years of our looking and almost giving up, it took an NPP government to discover oil in 2007. 
In eight years of NDC administration, 13 oil block deals were signed, and not a single one was developed. 
The first one signed in 2017, under my government, which was Aker, has led to the second biggest oil discovery in Africa. 
Enough to make a believer of anyone, I might say.
Mr Speaker, there is no avoiding the fact that the oil industry, unfortunately, has a reputation for corruption. 
Since the discovery of oil in our country, there has been heightened anxiety among the people that we do not fall into the same trap of the oil money benefitting individual officials to the detriment of the state and the general public.
On the fight against corruption in the oil industry, and to aid transparency, we have established a National Register of Contracts on which all the Petroleum Agreements signed by the Government have been published. 
This provides a platform for citizens to scrutinize the oil contracts signed by government, and accords with the international call for contract transparency.
We have also passed the General Petroleum Regulations, which provide for the disclosure of beneficial ownership information of companies operating in Ghana’s oil and gas industry. 
This will ensure that people do not hide in the shadows to appropriate oil blocks to themselves, at the expense of the citizens of Ghana. 
The interest of major oil companies in Ghana has become dramatic. Today, oil companies such as the American giant, ExxonMobil, and the Norwegian conglomerate, Aker, have signed petroleum exploration agreements with Ghana.
Through the launch of the “GHANA OIL AND GAS LICENSING ROUNDS 2018”, the bidding process for the allocation of new petroleum rights to prospective investors, the first such exercise in our history, other global players such as BP, China National Offshore Oil Corporation, and Total have expressed interest in coming to Ghana.
Mr Speaker, be it in the oil industry or manufacturing or retail, every day demonstrates the urgent need for our own businesses to develop and flourish. 
We have put in place the mechanisms to train young entrepreneurs and to help established businesses with a stimulus package to expand their companies.
Under the Presidential Support programme, one thousand, three hundred and fifty (1,350) start-ups and small businesses have benefitted from a special government business support programme. 
Beneficiaries received between ten thousand (GH¢10,000) and one hundred thousand Ghana cedis (GH¢100,000) each, at a special interest rate of 10%, instead of the average prevailing market rate of 26%.
This is designed to help grow and expand their businesses, and will create about thirty thousand (30,000) direct jobs. Eighteen thousand (18,000) jobs have already been created under this programme. 
This is the first time in Ghana’s history that there has been a deliberate, systematic and coherent national support for start-ups and small businesses.
Businesses, which benefitted, included agribusiness and agro-processing, information communication and technology, tourism and recreation, sanitation and waste management, health, food and beverages, green and ecological businesses, sports and real estate
Already established businesses are also receiving help, with an amount of two hundred and thirty million Ghana cedis (GH¢230 million) being disbursed among sixteen (16) companies under the stimulus package. 
This has led to the creation of eight thousand, five hundred (8,500) to ten thousand (10,000) direct and indirect jobs.
Proof, if some were needed that we are getting something right, and generating the right atmosphere to attract foreign business, has come with the announcement that three major international automobile manufacturers, Volkswagen, Nissan and Sinotruck have signed MOUs to establish assembling plants in our country. 
Renault is also conducting feasibility studies on establishing an assembly plant in Ghana, as is Toyota. 
We will outdoor, in March, the National Automotive Policy spelling out the terms, conditions and incentive package for participating in Ghana’s new automobile industry, which will also apply to indigenous car assembly companies.
Mr Speaker, our local textile industry has been struggling for years, and many textile companies have, indeed, gone under. 
We have decided to give it a major stimulus to help put it on a strong footing. 
The local textile industry has, therefore, been granted a zero-rated VAT on the supply of locally-made textiles for a period of three years. 
We have put in place a tax stamp regime for both locally manufactured and imported textiles to address the challenge of pirated designs and logos in the textile trade. 
The Tema Port has been designated as a Single-Entry Corridor for the importation of textile prints, with a textile taskforce in place to ensure effective compliance, and reduce, if not eliminate, smuggling of imported textiles.
A new textile import management system has been instituted, also, to control imports of textiles.
Mr. Speaker, the “One-District-One-Factory” policy has taken off, and 79 factories under the scheme are at various stages of operation or construction. 
Another 35 are going through credit appraisal. 
All told, there is a lot of activity going on under the scheme, and it has awoken the interest of young people to go into manufacturing business. 
Under the Rural Enterprises Programme, funded by the African Development Bank and the International Fund for Agricultural Development, 50 small-scale processing factories will be established by the end of the year in 50 districts across the country, particularly in areas where there is evidence of significant post-harvest losses. 
These will be owned and managed by organized youth groups, with technical support from the Ministry of Trade and Industry.
Mr Speaker, small and medium scale enterprises form the base of businesses in our country, and financing has been the bane of their operations. 
MASLOC was established in 2006 to meet a critical need by providing the type of small-scale loans needed by these small-scale enterprises at reasonable rates. 
Sadly, MASLOC was undermined by base political considerations and endemic corruption, and the centre was almost run down completely.
I am glad to report that MASLOC has been revamped, and is getting back to do what it was set up to do. 
There has been strict adherence to credit procedures and prudent management of the credit recovery process. 
These have resulted in a recovery rate of 89% of loans administered under a pilot scheme introduced in 2017.
MASLOC was given an amount of thirty-five million Ghana cedis (GH¢35 million) in October 2018 for disbursement. 
This is the first time an amount of such magnitude has been given to the Centre outside of an election year. 
Of the thirty-five million Ghana cedis that were received, the Centre has disbursed twenty million, five hundred and sixty-three thousand, one hundred Ghana cedis (GH¢20,563,100), with fourteen million, three hundred and seventeen thousand, two hundred Ghana cedis (GH¢14,317,200) to be disbursed for pending applications, which have been approved. 
So far, 87% of the monies disbursed have gone to women, i.e. to twenty-four thousand, five hundred and eighty-two (24,582) women. 
The 2016 NPP Manifesto promised to allocate 50% of MASLOC funds to women, and we have surpassed this promise.
It has obviously been noticed that interesting things are happening at the successfully restructured MASLOC, and that is why the Centre was allocated an amount of two hundred million Ghana cedis (GH¢ 200 million) in the 2019 budget. 
Such an amount is unprecedented in the history of MASLOC. 
In 2019, MASLOC will give increased attention to youth start-up businesses in vegetable farming, poultry, piggery and fish farming.
Mr Speaker, the incidence of bad governance methods that almost collapsed MASLOC has, unfortunately, affected the running of many businesses generally and the financial sector in particular. 
The banking sector has gone through what can only be described as a traumatic upheaval.
Again, Mr Speaker the woes of the banking sector have also been a case of long-standing bad practices that we, previously, had been unable or unwilling to deal with, which we are now having to deal with in the most painful manner. 
The clean-up has cost the national treasury GH¢12.7 billion, money we can ill afford, but which was necessary to sanitise the sector, minimise job losses, and protect deposits of one million, one hundred and forty-seven thousand, three hundred and sixty-six (1,147,366) Ghanaians and their businesses and the people they employed. 
The banking sector has emerged stronger from these developments, and inspired confidence in it. 
In all this, I have been anxious that our local banks are helped and given as much support as possible, which has been done, but l will not be on the side of criminal behaviour if that is discovered. 
I would urge that we are all patient for the investigations to be made in a calm manner.
And, while I am on the subject of rogue activities in the banking sector, it is probably the time to mention the MenzGold debacle. 
This is a tragic phenomenon that appears to have occurred in plain sight, and affected a lot of people, in spite of warnings from official institutions. 
As the authorities try to unravel the intricacies of what happened, I admonish all Ghanaians to learn the necessary lessons for the future, even as State institutions work to bring a resolution to the matter, and those who are seen to have indulged in criminal activities, are brought to justice. 
Last week, I inaugurated the Presidential Financial Stability Advisory Council, an inter-institutional consultative coordination body, which groups together all the regulators of our financial system, and whose purpose is to advise the President on the measures to be taken to preserve the stability of the financial system. 
The existence of such a body would have forestalled the emergence of the Menzgold saga, and will make it difficult, in future, for any such scheme to get off the ground.
Mr Speaker, during times like these of banking and business upheavals, agriculture appears even more attractive. 
It is more predictable and the soil and plants and animals far more reliable than sharp figures. 
The past two years have shown that, when a government takes deliberate measures to support agriculture, it pays healthy dividends.
There has been food and for the first time in a long while, we had more than we needed. 
It was not that long ago that Ghana was in the humiliating position of having to import maize from her landlocked Sahelian neighbours and plantain from Cote d’Ivoire. 
Thanks to the programme for “Planting for Food and Jobs”, admirably organised by that outstanding Minister for Agriculture, Dr. Owusu Afriyie Akoto, this House stands informed, that, in 2018, exports of food crops such as cassava, rice, yellow and white maize, soya, plantain, cowpea and yam were made FROM Ghana to Burkina Faso, Togo and Cote d’Ivoire in considerable quantities. 
We had a bumper harvest of produce, and, last year, we did not import a single grain of maize.
Based on the successes chalked in 2017 and then in 2018, the Ministry took giant strides to scale up the Planting for Food and Jobs Campaign in 2019, and to introduce new modules of the programme. 
Four of such new modules are the Greenhouse Villages programme, the Planting for Export and Rural Development (PERD) programme, the Rearing for Food and Jobs (RFJ) campaign and Mechanisation Centers programme.
We are hoping that the success will lead to a fundamental change in attitudes towards farming practices, and the sector will be truly transformed. 
Bumper harvests and increased food production in general would be the norm, and not a surprise once in a while. 
Extension services will be expanded, and our farmers will have the confidence to know that theirs is a worthwhile business from which they can and will get healthy remuneration and respect.
Mr Speaker, this year the Ministry of Fisheries and Aquaculture Development plans to implement a flagship programme – “Aquaculture for Food and Jobs” (AFJ) – complementary to the “Planting for Food and Jobs” initiative – to reinvigorate and boost the aquaculture industry. 
Priority will be given to youth entrepreneurs, distressed farmers, second cycle and public institutions to set up and operate fish farms across the country.
The programme will offer participating individuals and groups the requisite inputs, such as cages, fingerlings, fish feed and training, to be able to establish their own farms. 
The AFJ will be implemented for three years, from 2019 to 2021, in collaboration with the Nation Builders Corps (NABCO) and the School Feeding Programme. 
It is expected to create seven thousand (7,000) jobs, and add an extra thirty-three thousand, six hundred and twenty-eight (33,628) metric tonnes of fish to our domestic fish production. 
Piloting of the AFJ has already started at the James Camp Prison.
For traditional fishing, Government will collaborate with the private sector to facilitate the provision of five thousand (5,000) outboard motors and fifty-five thousand, two hundred and fifty (55,250) bales of prescribed fishing gears through the fisheries associations. 
To promote the effective and efficient distribution of premix fuel, we will continue to use the premix fuel tracking system, and audit landing beaches, measures which have ensured that, since November 2018, there has been no report of premix diversion, a marked improvement from the past.
To modernize the fisheries sector, US$185 million of loan money has been earmarked for the construction of twelve (12) landing sites and two (2) fishing harbours in some selected fishing communities in the country.  
Phase I will kick off in March at Axim, Mumford, Winneba and Teshie. Recently, I cut the sod to commence work at the Jamestown Harbour Complex, which, like the development of Elmina Fishing Harbour, is part of our plans for the fishing sector in 2019.
Mr Speaker, as is well known, our lands and water bodies have been under extreme pressure for some time. 
Farming lands have been destroyed, and rivers that used to provide safe drinking water and fish turned into toxic water bodies.
This is why we placed the ban on all small-scale mining, so we could find ways to deal with the illegal mining, or galamsey, as it is popularly called. 
The ban on small scale mining has now been lifted, but not on galamsey. Some of our water bodies have shown remarkable signs of rejuvenation. 
River Ankobra, for example, looks restored to life; indeed, some fish have even been seen in the Ankobra for the first time in a long while. 
But the battle against galamsey is nowhere near being won yet, and I appeal to all citizens to be part of the battle to keep our lands and water bodies safe.
As I have said on several occasions, this government cannot be against mining. 
It bears repeating that, with the Almighty having blessed our land with so many precious minerals, mining, inevitably, will be part of our lives. 
That is why I had the pleasure of reopening the AngloGold Obuasi Mine, on 22nd January, 2019, which had remained effectively closed since 2014, in fulfilment of a campaign pledge I made to the people of Obuasi on 15th July, 2016. 
In order to help Anglogold Ashanti secure the needed investment for this project, Government provided a number of fiscal incentives, and guaranteed the stability of the project against changes in the legal environment, especially in the early years of the mine’s operations. 
The fiscal arrangements made this time has provided a more equitable balance between the interests of Government and the investors. 
With an estimated two thousand, five hundred (2,500) jobs to be created, Obuasi is being brought back to life again, and, this time around, under the new management of AngloGold Ashanti, the development of Obuasi will reflect the wealth its soil produces, like its counterparts in other mining cities around the world.
Mr. Speaker, we intend, also, to mine, at long last, our bauxite deposits in order to establish an integrated aluminium industry in Ghana. 
The Ghana Integrated Aluminium Development Corporation, a statutory corporation, has been set up, with the support of Parliament, to spearhead Government’s commitment to create an integrated aluminium industry.
Since its formation, the leadership of the corporation has been working tirelessly with transaction advisors and other stakeholders to ensure the objective of achieving an integrated aluminium industry is executed in a timely manner. A request for proposal is ready to be sent out to the market by the end of this month. 
This request will solicit proposals from investors interested in partnering government to develop various components of the integrated aluminium industry in Ghana.
Taking cognisance of the fact that achieving an integrated aluminium industry agenda requires the uninterrupted and competitive supply of power to the industry, Government is in the process of negotiating special arrangements to supply power at internationally competitive rates. 
This arrangement is expected to be approved by Cabinet and, subsequently, hopefully, by Parliament soon.
The same model is being pursued for the exploitation of our iron ore deposits, which, together with our considerable manganese deposits, can enable us found a steel industry to serve our country and the region.
A data centre, the first of its kind, now exists at the Minerals Commission, which will allow prospective investors and partners to access every information regarding the bauxite deposits and the aluminium industry. 
The Minerals Commission is in the course of creating an equivalent data centre for our iron ore deposits.
Mr Speaker, the security services are at the forefront of keeping us and our nation safe. Let me pay homage to the men and women of the services for the sterling work that they do. 
The Ghana Armed Forces, in collaboration with other security agencies, have been in Operations CALM LIFE, COWLEG, HALT, CONQUERED, FIST, GONGON, CITADEL, AHODWO and VANGUARD. 
Ayekoo to you men and women of the Armed Forces. 
Ghana is proud of you. 
Your hard work is contributing to making our nation a safe place.
I would like to mention the improvements that have been registered in dealing with nomadic herdsmen. 
The Ghana Armed Forces assisted the National Security to embark on OPERATION ROADSTAR, and as a result a 40-cre cattle ranch has been constructed to accommodate over six thousand (6,000) cattle at Wawase, in Afram Plains, and reducing, considerably, the tensions in the area with the nomadic herdsmen. 
There are plans to replicate these ranches in other parts of the country.
Government is pleased to have fulfilled its promise to the Military Personnel by increasing the United Nations Peacekeeping Troops contribution allowances from Thirty United State Dollars (USD 30.00) to Thirty-Five United State Dollars (USD35.00) per soldier per day. 
And as promised, we will continue to pay the troops regularly at the operational areas.
We will continue to modernize and provide the equipment needed by the Military to help them carry out their mandate effectively. 
Tomorrow, I will be presenting to the Ghana Armed Forces 50 ANKAI Buses, the first tranche of the 138 Staff and Operational Vehicles of various categories, and 26 dispatch motorcycles. 
This year, we will provide the Army with 30 Otokar Armored Personnel Carriers (APC), and 6 Fast Patrol Boats for the Navy.
We will also provide improved training facilities by transforming the Military Academy into a World Class Institution, and expand the housing project from six 16 flats to 44, and begin constructing 160 2-bedroom apartments across the country. 
This year, we will also complete and commission the 500-bed Military Hospital in the Ashanti Region, and begin the third phase of this project.
Mr. Speaker, the amendment of LI 1332, which is seeking to change the length of service of the men and women of the other ranks of the Ghana Armed Forces from 25 to 30 years and the associated career progression plan, has been reviewed, laid and passed by Parliament, and will be implemented this year as planned.
Mr Speaker, it is the police that we the ordinary citizens have to deal with in our everyday lives. 
It is, therefore, not surprising that, often, the police come in for a lot of criticism from the people.
Mr Speaker, as is the case with many of our institutions, things had deteriorated for a long time, and we had come to accept the abnormal as normal. 
We have been busy this past year supplying the police with equipment, cars, motorbikes, drones and other vital policing equipment. 
Financial clearance has been given, and they are in the process of recruiting up to four thousand (4,000) men and women into the service. 
That is a first, gradually we are increasing the police numbers, and the service too is waking up to its responsibilities and offering more training to their officers. 
I look forward to a better trained, better equipped and happier police service that has the respect and cooperation of the people.
Mr Speaker, we need this well-trained police service if we are to abide by the rule of law. 
I am aware of the frustration of many at the delays in the justice delivery system, which are the result of a multiplicity of factors, which we are trying to address.
And this must be the appropriate time and place to mention the abysmal state of the lower courts around our country. 
Many people must have seen on television the barely concealed outrage of the Chief Justice, as she has been going around examining the courts. 
It is obvious that most of the lower courts are not fit for purpose, and we must provide suitable structures for our law courts. 
Discussions on how to raise the money are currently ongoing, and I am optimistic that a solution will be found.
Mr Speaker, I am pleased to note that there appears to have been a marked change in the Ministry of Justice. 
No longer do we have people bringing frivolous claims against the State because they know the case will not be defended, and they will get judgement debts. 
I believe the word is now out that every claim against the government will be vigorously defended, and the State will no longer be the soft touch it used to be for people to get suspiciously large judgement debts awarded to them.
Mr. Speaker, I am happy to state that, as you know, Parliament has virtually completed its deliberations on the Right To Information Bill, and that, any moment from now, the nation will hear the news of its long, anticipated passage. 
I will, happily, assent to it as soon as it is brought to my table.
Mr Speaker, we all await the Special Prosecutor to start his work. 
It is in everybody’s interest that we know that any accusations of corruption in public office will be vigorously investigated and prosecuted, if the prima facie evidence is there. 
This should be an essential feature of the governance culture of our country. 
For myself, I know the Special Prosecutor to be a responsible public official, who will act when he is ready.
Mr Speaker, Ghana remains an active player in international affairs, especially in the region of West Africa and on the continent of Africa. 
Ghana’s voice is loud and clear on issues at international fora.
Good neighbourliness underpins our foreign policy and we try to be at peace with all. 
I have been intimately involved in trying to find a resolution to the difficulties in Togo, and we hope that they are coming to an end.
Mr Speaker, communications inside and with the outside are critical for the modern existence of any nation. 
Our roads, inside the country and those leading out to our neighbouring countries, have been in a dreadful state for a long time. 
Everybody has by now heard about the arrangements we have made with the Chinese company, Sinohydro, and it is a matter of great relief to me that I am able to say that work will now be starting on the roads that have been designated to be part of that project. 
It is worth stating that we are very much aware that there are many more roads that do not come under the SinoHydro deal, which are also in a bad way and we continue to seek ways to build a road network worthy of our nation.
I am glad to be able to report that the Accra to Tema railway service has started running on the refurbished line. 
The opening of the Accra/Nsawam line has been postponed, because sand winners have undermined the ground underneath the track near Pokuase. 
It is now being repaired, and the service will start hopefully by the end of February.
If we want the railways to work, we would all have to take an interest in and stop the activities of encroachers on the railway lands. 
The rehabilitation of the narrow-gauge line will continue from Nsawam to Koforidua. 
Work is continuing on the rehabilitation of the Kojokrom to Tarkwa section of the Western line, whilst work on the standard gauge section from Kojokrom to Manso is ongoing.
Apart from all the investment being made, the government is committing an extra one billion US dollars to the development of the new railway network. 
Five hundred million dollars ($500 million) will be applied to the development of the Western line, and five hundred million dollars ($500 million) will be applied to the first phase of the Kumasi to Paga section of the national network.
The development of the Tema/Ouagadougou railway line is also progressing steadily.
Twelve shortlisted companies have been invited to proceed to the next stage of the procurement process. 
This year, land acquisition will commence beyond the Volta River at Mpakadan, and the strategic investor will be selected.
To sum it up, the railways are coming in a big way into Ghana, and we shall open up our country for the development that we all desire.
Mr. Speaker, Government recognizes the significance of aviation to our country’s economic and social development. 
Operations at the Kumasi, Tamale, Takoradi airports have been revamped, with the resurgence in domestic airline operations through the introduction of new domestic operators like Unity Air and Passion Air. 
Soon, the flag of Ghana will be flown again, as we have identified strategic investors to launch a Home-Based Carrier.
Whilst we embark on the protracted process of building roads and railways to open up our country, we are doing so with modern technology. 
Mobile telephony has almost covered the entire country, and broadband internet connectivity is available in many places.
There are one million, two hundred (1,200,000) registered and verified addresses through the National Digital Property Addressing System; in other words, we have joined the modern world, and gradually leaving the right turn at the blue kiosk, and opposite the Kofi-broke-man seller, behind us.
People are able to renew their National Health Insurance cards in minutes in the comfort of their own homes. 
You can now renew your driving licence, and register a car in half an hour, register your business online, and acquire a passport in a week without any of the difficulties that used to come with trying to get any of these things done. 
The National Identification card, the Ghana Card, has been issued to people in government departments and members of the security services, and, this year, the rest of the population will be registered and receive their cards.
We are determined to join the digital world.
Mr Speaker, Ghana won, last year, the bid to host the 13th All Africa Games. 
It presents our nation with the opportunity to upgrade sporting infrastructure in the country, and position our nation as a preferred destination for the development of sporting disciplines on the continent. 
We have begun renovating and upgrading our sporting infrastructure such as the Accra and Cape Coast Sports Stadia, and the Azumah Nelson Sports Complex in Kaneshie, and a complete refurbishment of sports facilities across the country. 
Funds have also been released for the completion of the University of Ghana Sports Stadium, started by the Kufuor-led NPP Government, but abandoned soon after 2009. 
The Ghanaian people are also expectant of a return to normalcy of all football-related activities as soon as possible, and the Normalization Committee is working to ensure that they meet the March deadline.
Mr Speaker, three months ago, a member of this honourable House and the representative of Ayawaso West Wuogon constituency, died suddenly, throwing all of us into mourning. 
On 31st January, three weeks ago exactly, a by-election was called to elect a replacement for the late Emmanuel Kyeremanteng Agyarko. May his soul rest in perfect peace.
During the course of that morning, some events took place in that constituency, which led to an uproar in the country. 
My first instinct was to let the police do their investigations, and then prosecute, if they found evidence of criminality. 
The narration that this was another incident of “normal by-election violence” caused me to expand my response.
Indeed, Mr Speaker, recent by-elections in Akwatia, Atiwa, Chereponi, Talensi and Amenfi West had been marked with violence, and some people still have their physical and emotional scars to show for it.
I could have sat it out, as some did, for Akwatia, Atiwa, Chereponi, Talensi and Amenfi West, but I decided that that would not be in the interest of Ghanaian democracy. 
The time has come to put an end to the phenomenon of politically-related violence. 
The only way in our system to begin to deal with such a situation is through the work of a Commission of Inquiry. 
Thankfully, I got four responsible Ghanaians of independent spirit, who agreed to serve on the Commission. 
I hope the findings and recommendations of the Emile Short Commission will enable us chart a path to ending politically-related violence in our country.
The events of last Monday, in Kumasi, where a meeting of the national and regional executives of the opposition National Democratic Congress was broken up by acts of violence, leading to the tragic death of a citizen, have reinforced the urgent need for us to find that path. 
I want to use the platform of this Message to make a sincere, passionate appeal to the leaders of the two main political parties in our country, NPP and NDC, to come together, as soon as possible, preferably next week, to agree on appropriate measures to bring an end to this worrying and unacceptable phenomenon of vigilantism in our body politic. 
I have asked the leadership of the NPP to extend an invitation to the leadership of the NDC for such a meeting. 
The security services of the country will be on standby to assist this meeting. 
If voluntary disbandment by the parties is not feasible, then I will initiate legislation on the matter. 
Vigorous debate and the exchange of ideas should be the true basis of political dialogue and competition in our country, not the activities of party vigilante groups.
Mr. Speaker, what was tolerated over the years cannot and must not be accepted anymore.  
We must not take our peace and security for granted— not for a moment. 
Our children and grandchildren will not forgive us if we were to compromise our peace and stability.  
I will not permit that to happen under my watch. 
Our forebears paid too high a price, with their blood and toil, to bequeath to us this beautiful nation; the lives of our citizens are too precious to waste.
So, let us come together shoulder to shoulder, hand in hand and let us all be guided by the inspirational words of (the second stanza of) our national anthem:
“Hail to thy name, O Ghana,
To thee we make our solemn vow:
Steadfast to build together
A nation strong in Unity;
With our gifts of mind and strength of arm,
Whether night or day, in the midst of storm,
In every need, whatever the call may be,
To serve thee, Ghana, now and for evermore.”
Mr. Speaker, we have our challenges, but our nation is in good health.
I thank you very much for your attention.
May God bless us all, and our homeland Ghana, and make her great and strong.
Lewis Hamilton and Mercedes will continue their immensely successful partnership in Formula 1 beyond this season, with the reigning seven-time world champion signing a two-year contract that will keep him in F1 with the Silver Arrows until at least the end of 2023.
It is the second contract Hamilton has done with Mercedes in six months, the Briton only putting pen to paper on his current one-year term a few weeks before pre-season testing began.
Both Hamilton and Mercedes Team Principal Toto Wolff were keen to avoid the contract saga dragging on again, so began talks much earlier and they were concluded within weeks before being announced on Saturday morning of the Austrian Grand Prix.
It means Hamilton will be just one week short of 39 years old when his new deal ends, having extended his stay at the Silver Arrows - with whom he’s won six of his seven titles - to 11 years.
“It is hard to believe it’s been nearly nine years working with this incredible team and I’m excited we’re going to continue our partnership for two more years,” said Hamilton.
We’ve accomplished so much together but we still have a lot to achieve, both on and off the track. 
I’m incredibly proud and grateful of how Mercedes has supported me in my drive to improve diversity and equality in our sport. 
They have held themselves accountable and made important strides in creating a more diverse team and inclusive environment.
“Thank you to all the dedicated and talented individuals at Mercedes whose hard work makes it all possible and the Board for their continued trust in me. 
We’re entering a new era of car which will be challenging and exciting and I can’t wait to see what else we can achieve together.”
Wolff added: “As we enter a new era of F1 from 2022 onwards, there can be no better driver to have in our team than Lewis.
“His achievements in this sport speak for themselves, and with his experience, speed and race craft, he is at the peak of his powers. 
We are relishing the battle we have on our hands this year – and that’s why we also wanted to agree this contract early, so we have no distractions from the competition on track.
“I have always said that as long as Lewis still possesses the fire for racing, he can continue as long as he wants.”
This is fantastic news for Formula 1 and I am delighted that Lewis will stay in Formula 1 for at least another two years," added F1 President and CEO Stefano Domenicali.
"What he has achieved in this sport is incredible and I know he has more to come. 
He is a global superstar on and off the race track and his positive impact on Formula 1 is huge."
The identity of Hamilton’s team mate remains unclear, but it is believed to be a call between incumbent Valtteri Bottas – who has been with the team since 2017 – and Mercedes junior George Russell, who has impressed with his performances at Williams.
Ghana salutes the historical significance of your election to preside over this 73rd session of the General Assembly as the first female Latin American, and congratulates you most heartily, Madam President. 
Your election reinforces our common preoccupation that gender equality must be a central feature of the global agenda.
Madam President, thirteen days ago, we laid to rest in his home soil of Ghana, Kofi Annan, the 7th Secretary-General of the United Nations, the first from sub-Saharan Africa to occupy this exalted position. 
On behalf of the people and government of Ghana, I wish to extend our heartfelt gratitude to the United Nations Secretariat, led by the Secretary-General, His Excellency António Guterres, and the whole world community for the outpouring of grief and condolences that we received on the passing of Kofi Annan. 
We were deeply touched that so many world leaders and people took the trouble to come to Accra to bid him farewell.
Kofi Annan’s passionate and profound belief in the United Nations, and his certainty that a better organised and stronger UN would make the world a better place, is an ideal that should not be allowed to die.
Today, we continue to be faced with the stark reality that resolutions, norms and any number of votes in the Security Council and General Assembly mean nothing without the political will to enforce them. 
We are still to come to terms with what the role of our organization should be. 
Should it just be a club of nation states that exists to look after their own interests? 
What of its constitution by “we the peoples”, as declared in its founding document? 
Does the theme we have chosen for this assembly have any relevance in real life, and do we want to make the United Nations relevant to all people? 
Do we want an organization that ensures shared responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies? Or should it remain the place to pass resolutions that are ignored with impunity?
Madam President, when some of the nations of the world gathered in San Francisco 73 years ago, and signed the landmark document that created this organization, it was a very different world from what we have today.
And I do not refer only to the difference in the numbers in the room on that occasion, nor the difference in the mode of travel that brought the leaders to that meeting and the jet planes that have brought us all to New York this week. 
Nor do I refer to the tweets by which we communicate now, and the elegant handwriting that they employed back in 1945. 
I refer to the theme we have drawn up for this General Assembly, and wonder if it would have been comprehensible to that group in San Francisco.
It is a different world we currently live in, and we should accept that this organization must change to suit contemporary needs.
Madam President, ten years ago as the General Assembly was starting its proceedings, the world was plunged into a financial crisis. 
The first scenes of that crisis were played out on a street not far from where we are gathered, but the consequences were felt and are still being felt around the world, and in small countries like Ghana. 
Some say that upheaval lies at the heart of the change in politics and outlook around the world. 
Today, as we speak, a trade war is being stoked between the two largest economies of the world. 
The consequences will affect those who have had no say, including small countries like Ghana.
These events provide proof, if some were needed, that ours is an interdependent world. 
We in Ghana (and other parts of the African continent) are determined to pull our country out of poverty and into prosperity.
We do not think that a nation needs to remain poor or become poor for others to become prosperous. 
We believe that there is room, and there are enough resources on this planet for us all to be prosperous. 
But it does mean that the rules and regulations that we fashion to guide our dealings with each other have to be respected by all of us. 
From the environment to trading rules, we have to accept that there cannot be different set of rules for different countries. 
Thus far, the United Nations provides the best vehicle for all nations to address their aspirations and challenges. 
Ghana has always displayed her belief in the United Nations and sought to contribute her share in making the organization a successful one.
We have embraced the SDGs and integrated the seventeen ambitious goals into our national vision and budget. 
We intend that Ghana will in July 2019, take her turn to present our Voluntary National Review during the ECOSOC High-Level Political Forum, and we will share our successes and challenges as well as opportunities for new and continuing partnerships.
Madam President, it is important to reiterate that advocating for a world order in which all countries sign up to obey the rules does not mean that we want uniformity. 
We take pride in what distinguishes us as Africans and as Ghanaians.
55% of the work of the Security Council last year had to do with Africa. 
Unfortunately, this invariably meant peacekeeping and poverty related issues. 
We no longer want to be the place that requires peacekeepers and poverty-fighting NGOs, no matter how noble their motives. 
Our regional bodies, like ECOWAS, and our continental body, the AU, are making systematic efforts, despite significant handicaps, to bring peace and stability to the entire continent, and, sooner rather than later, they will succeed.
We know we must get our population educated and trained, and we are setting about it. 
We must address our infrastructural deficit. 
The traditional methods of tackling this problem will not provide the answer. 
We are looking for new ways to resolve it. Ghana, like many countries in Africa, is forging relations with China to make arrangements to help address part of our infrastructure deficit.
This is not a uniquely Ghanaian or African phenomenon. 
It has not been lost on us that the developed, rich and well-established countries have been paying regular visits to China, and seeking to open new economic ties and improve upon existing ones. 
It is also not lost on us that a lot of anxiety is being expressed about the possibility of a recolonization of the African continent by a new power. 
We should, indeed, learn from history.
It was at the turn of the 20th century that China’s first railways were built by Western companies, financed by Western loans to a nearly bankrupt Qing Dynasty, and it was under those circumstances that a certain strategic port called Hong Kong was leased for 99 years, and the rest, as the saying goes, is history.
Today, the former victim of Western Railways imperialism is lending billions to countries throughout Asia, Africa and Europe to construct not only railroads, but also highways, ports, power plants and other infrastructure, and many businesses.
The historical echoes are certainly worrisome, but, yes, surely, we must and can learn from history.
We, in Ghana, must build roads, bridges, railways, ports, schools, hospitals, and we must create jobs to keep our young people engaged. 
It is obvious to us that the development trajectory we had been on for many decades is not working. 
We are trying a different one, and we would appreciate the support and goodwill of the world, especially in helping to stem the huge flow of illicit funds from the continent.
It is in everybody’s interest that we, who are counted amongst the poor of the world, make a rapid transformation from poverty to prosperity. 
We are determined in Ghana, and, increasingly, in more and more parts of Africa, to chart our own paths to prosperity, and pay our own way in the world. 
We are no longer interested in being a burden on others. 
We will shoulder our own responsibilities and build societies and nations that will be attractive to our youth. 
We have the necessary sense of enterprise, creativity, innovation and hard work to engineer this transition. 
Hence, our vision of a Ghana Beyond Aid, indeed, of an Africa Beyond Aid.
Madam President, it is equally important that the United Nations is reformed to be able to preside over this changed and changing world to which we all aspire. 
The powerful nations must be willing to adapt to the changes to make our world a better place. After all, we all inhabit the same planet, and we all owe the same duty of care to ensure its survival.
The African Common Position on UN Reform, as expressed in the Ezulwini Consensus, remains the most comprehensive proposal for reform of the United Nations, particularly of the Security Council. It is time the global community endorsed it to create a modern United Nations fit for purpose in our time.
May God bless the United Nations and us all.
I thank you for your attention.
Fellow Ghanaians, I have come into your homes this evening to talk about a matter that has generated a lot of heat in our country these past days. 
Last week, at the height of the furore triggered by the US-Ghana Military Co-operation Agreement, a good friend of mine came to caution me on what he called the “hazards of this democracy thing”. He told me, just in case I needed reminding that my predecessor as President, who had also been democratically elected, had chosen to avoid any possible controversy by signing and keeping secret some agreements. 
So, why did I not follow this precedent, instead of exposing the nation to all the hazards of the past few days?
My friend, no doubt, had a point. 
Indeed, I acknowledge that there are many very well-meaning citizens who would have preferred the peaceful process of agreements reached behind closed doors, to the furore of the past few days. 
Yet, far from being daunted, I take what has happened not to be symptomatic of the hazards of democracy, but a show of the strength of democracy in action. 
We are seeing being displayed before our very eyes, not the triumph of disorder, but the value of openness in governance, and of the need, the crucial need, for the people to be fully and accurately informed.
You cannot claim to believe in democracy unless you have faith in the people, faith in their inherent goodness, faith in their capacity to make the right decisions, given the right information. 
It is this faith in the people that has shaped my entire political career, and it is this faith that propels me to lead an open and transparent government. 
I was fully aware of how such agreements had been handled in earlier administrations, but I decided that, under my watch, any such agreements should be subject to the appropriate scrutiny of the people’s representatives in Parliament, in consonance with the requirements of accountable governance and the teachings of the Constitution. 
After all, you, the Ghanaian people, had voted massively for change; therefore, there was simply no way my government would ever keep hidden from you, the people, agreements of such a nature. 
I believe that the fall-out from this decision only shows the growing maturation of our democracy. 
But for this decision to be open about this agreement, how else would we, the people of Ghana, have ever known that, for several decades, Ghana has had defence and security co-operation collaborations with the United States of America? 
How else would we have known that, in some instances, we have provided them with facilities for the movement of personnel and equipment to help some of our neighbours who were facing security and health challenges?
And how else would we have exposed the unspeakable hypocrisy of the fraternity of some frontline politicians, who make a habit of running with the hares and hunting with the hounds, who secretly wallow in the largesse of the United States of America, whilst, at the same time, promote anti-American sentiments to a populist constituency? 
Submitting this Agreement to open scrutiny now allows us to clear the unhealthy fog that has clouded our relations with the United States of America. 
The conduct of Ghana’s foreign policy and its relations with the nations of the world has, happily, been, traditionally, above the passions of partisan politics. 
Allowing for the normal differences of approach, which will sometimes occur, our foreign policy has been consistently bi-partisan, and no successor government has found the need to tamper with any Agreement of a non-commercial nature, entered into by its predecessor. 
We respect the age-old norms of international diplomacy that, when a country has accorded concessions and privileges to another, these are not removed or altered by a successor government, unless, firstly, the conditions under which they were granted have been reversed; or, secondly, there is proven evidence of abuse. 
My Government came to know that Ghana had entered into a Co-operation Agreement with the United States of America, in 1998, 2000, and under the government of my predecessor in 2015. 
We were satisfied that the conditions which necessitated the Agreement, namely the creeping threat to the peace of the region, had not disappeared. 
If anything, the threat had increased and, therefore, the need had arisen for continuing with our co-operation. 
No suggestion had ever been made that the United States of America had abused any of the privileges or concessions granted under any of these agreements, and it would, thus, have been deemed an unfriendly act to attempt to deny them any concession granted them under those agreements.
Fellow Ghanaians, above everything else, the crux of the matter is this. 
Ghana has built a formidable reputation for its contribution to peace-keeping around the world. 
Although these peace-keeping operations have always been under the aegis of the United Nations, no one doubts the fact that they have been made possible by the contributions largely of the United States of America. 
The Co-operation Agreement, which has subsisted, which we have approved, can only enhance the global effort to preserve the peace in our region.
It is important also to state that the conditions of the Agreement mirror closely the conditions under which Ghana participates in peace-keeping operations under the United Nations. 
When our troops go on most peacekeeping duties, they do not carry their national passports, they carry their military identity.  
Quite apart from how this Agreement involves the military as an institution, it is worth pointing out that, virtually since independence, Ghana has had very fruitful relations with a range of foreign embassies and major international institutions. 
These include the United Nations, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the African Development Bank, the International Finance Corporation, amongst others. 
All these agencies enjoy similar conditions as those which the Co-operation Agreement offers to the US military here.
No one has dared suggest that granting these foreign embassies and international institutions these concessions constitute an attack on the sovereignty of Ghana. 
Nor has anyone also felt that the concessions have in any way worked against the interests of Ghana. 
Indeed, I have no doubt that it would be the general consensus of all well-informed Ghanaians that this nation has benefitted significantly from the presence and activities of these institutions over the past decades.
It is clear to me that, if the people of Ghana knew the conditions under which foreign embassies and our friendly international institutions operate in Ghana, nobody would have been surprised that a Defence Cooperation Agreement would make such provisions. 
Such knowledge would have spared many citizens the genuine anxiety and concern they have felt about the Agreement. 
It is my firm belief that the case for openness and transparency in our governance has been clearly demonstrated, and the argument conclusively settled by these events.
But we have to take issue with the front-line politicians who have sought to mislead the people in this blatant manner, and those who, for mischievous purposes, leaked the document destined for the scrutiny of Parliament prematurely to a section of the media, who then went on to describe it as a “secret document”. 
How could a document intended for the consideration of Parliament be described as a “secret document”? 
How could anyone who has been in government and run the administration of this nation feign ignorance of the conditions under which Ghanaian troops undertake peace-keeping operations, or the conditions under which our country has collaborated with major international institutions? I
t is difficult to understand that such people, knowing what they do know, would set about so blatantly to confuse people, and go as far as calling for the overthrow of our democracy? 
A democracy that has become the beacon of good governance in Africa? 
A democracy that has survived for a quarter of a century and encompassed even the most irresponsible episodes of ill governance, in a state of unity and stability? 
A democracy that has provided the framework for systematic developments in our social and economic welfare, and assured us of the longest, uninterrupted period of stable constitutional governance in our history?
Surely, this is the kind of cynical manipulation by reckless self-seekers, which, in the fullness of time, the people of Ghana will acknowledge and condemn. 
And I am sure that as the facts become clear and widely available, and as the people come to terms with the evidence, they will reject the falsehood and deliberate attempts to destabilize our peaceful country. Truth is sacrosanct.
So let me state with the clearest affirmation that Ghana has not offered a military base, and will not offer a military base to the United States of America. 
Indeed, the United States of America has not made any request for such consideration and, consistent with our established foreign policy, we will not consider any such request. 
However, in consideration of the realities of our circumstances and the challenges to peace in our region in our time, we have deemed it prudent to continue the Co-operation Agreement with the United States of America. 
It is our firm belief that the Agreement will help enhance our defence capability, and offer an important layer of support in our common effort to protect the peace in our region.
Fellow Ghanaians, let me conclude by saying how outraged I am by the defamatory comments from my political opponents, some of whose patriotism can be so easily questioned, that the sovereignty of this country has been sold by my government and myself. 
I will never be the President that will compromise or sell the sovereignty of our country. 
I respect deeply the memory of the great patriots whose sacrifice and toil brought about our independence and freedom. 
I have stood with you, the Ghanaian people, all my adult life, fighting for our individual and collective rights. 
Everything I have done, since assuming the great honour and privilege of serving you as President of the Republic, demonstrates that I remain focused on building a self-reliant, free, prosperous Ghana, which will be able to make her own unique contribution to the growth and development of Africa and the world. 
Let us concentrate and spend our energies on working together to achieve that goal of a happy and prosperous Ghana, and reject the hypocrisy of the naysayers who led our country into bankruptcy and the worse economic record of modern Ghanaian history. 
Let us rise above them, and build the Ghana of our destiny, the land of freedom, justice, progress and prosperity. 
May God bless us all, and our homeland Ghana, and make her great and strong. 
I thank you for your attention. 
Good night.
I welcome Your Excellencies to your second home, Accra, Ghana’s capital, for the 59th Ordinary Session of the Authority of Heads of State and Government of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS).
I acknowledge with gratitude the presence of the representatives of the African Union and the United Nations, and Members of the Diplomatic Corps, and, most especially, that of Louise Mushikiwabo, our Rwandan sister, who is the Secretary-General of La Francophonie, and our Special Guest. 
I say a hearty akwaaba, our word of welcome, to each of you, and I hope you are enjoying the famed Ghanaian hospitality.
On behalf of the Government and people of Ghana, I thank all ECOWAS Member States and all AU Member States for the support of Ghana’s recent successful candidature for a non-permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council for the years 2022-2023. 
Ghana received the highest number of votes on the day, i.e., 185 out of 190 votes. 
It would not have been possible without your active support. 
I assure you, Excellencies, that Ghana will make sure that Africa’s voice is heard loud and clear in the deliberations of the Security Council, both on matters affecting our Region and the Continent, and on global issues, and we will consult broadly to define Africa’s interests.
Africa’s Common Position on UN Reform, based on the Ezulwini Consensus, is one matter Ghana is determined to urge on the global agenda. 
We will work to solicit the backing of countries around the world for this long, overdue reform. 
We believe it is time to correct the longstanding injustice that the current structure and composition of the UN Security Council represents for the nations of Africa.
Excellencies, let me congratulate warmly our brothers and colleagues, H.E. Mohamed Bazoum and H.E. Patrice Talon, who have been elected as Presidents of the Republic of Niger and of the Republic of Benin, respectively, since our last Summit. 
I offer them my and the Community’s best wishes for their success during their terms of office. 
I commend also the Republics of Cote d’Ivoire and Cape Verde for the conduct and outcomes of their latest legislative elections. 
Our Region continues to strengthen its democratic credentials through the holding of successful elections.
Excellencies, the Agenda for this meeting has been well defined. At our Extraordinary Summit, in February 2021, you entrusted me with the task of leading the reflection on the institutional reform of our Organisation. 
The purpose of the reform is to improve the performance and operational efficiency of ECOWAS Institutions, in order to ensure the implementation of integration programmes for the economic and social development of the Region.
The reform focuses on the optimal structure of the Commission and other Institutions, on modalities for the allocation of statutory positions, and on streamlining ECOWAS’ operating costs. 
These were the subjects of several meetings at the ministerial level, and their conclusions will be presented to us for our adoption or otherwise during our Closed Session.
Furthermore, as part of the consolidation of our solidarity and pursuant to the decision taken at our last Extraordinary Summit, we will consider, for adoption, a rotation mechanism that will enable the various linguistic groups of our Community and each Member State a fair, orderly opportunity to lead and represent the Community in regional, continental and global affairs.
The importance of all these issues is an indication of the richness and depth of our Community. 
I remain convinced that the quality of our discussions and the decisions we take together will, as is customary, be commensurate with the ambitions we have for our Region.
I hope we can agree quickly on these matters so that we will have the time to delve into and take decisions on the great issues, which face us, of terrorism, violent extremism, democracy, peace and security, health and the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, and the rapid economic recovery of our Region from the effects of the pandemic.
Unfortunately, we are still confronted with serious security challenges with deadly terrorist attacks and kidnappings, not only in the frontline countries, namely Mali, Nigeria, Burkina Faso and Niger, but also in the coastal countries of our Region, such as Cote d’Ivoire. 
Recently, the terrorist attack, which resulted in the death of some one hundred and thirty-two (132) civilians, including children, in Burkina Faso, on 5th June, is the latest such outrage. 
I went, in the name of the Community, to Ouagadougou, on Wednesday, 9th June, to commiserate with President Roch Marc Christian Kabora, and offer our condolences, sympathies and support to the Government and people of Burkina Faso in their dark hour.
Excellencies, these developments should reinforce our collective commitment to pursue and implement, with renewed vigour, the decisions taken at our Extraordinary Summit on Terrorism on 14th September 2019. 
This concerted effort, which must be a major issue and a priority objective for the Community, is the best way for us to address this security challenge. 
It is a matter of dignity and sovereignty, which affects all nations in the Region. 
None of our countries is insulated from the threats of terrorism.
Whilst thanking the countries that have already contributed to the ECOWAS Regional Security Fund, I appeal to other countries, who are yet to contribute, to do so.
We must also pay urgent attention to the growing threat to maritime security in our Region. 
Acts of piracy and maritime destabilisation are on the rise in the Gulf of Guinea, thus affecting trade in our Community, and increasing the cost of imported products. 
We must operationalise the maritime centres we have established in the Region, and agree on the way forward to combat these acts of piracy. 
We cannot hand over control of the Gulf to pirates.
Excellencies, we will have the opportunity to discuss the political situation in Mali, with a view to assessing the progress made since our last decisions taken at the Emergency Summit held here in, Accra, on 30th May, when we suspended Mali from our Organisation, pending the restoration of democratic rule. 
We will hear a report from the ECOWAS Mediator on the Malian Crisis, His Excellency Goodluck Jonathan, former President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and the President of the ECOWAS Commission, His Excellency Jean-Claude Kassi Brou, who went together to Mali after the investiture of Colonel Goita.
One issue of concern for all of us has to do with the pandemic of COVID-19, which continues to ravage the world and our Region. 
The strong measures taken at national and regional levels, since the outbreak of the pandemic, have enabled us to contain and mitigate, with the blessing of the Almighty, its impact in our respective countries, the tragic deaths we have recorded, notwithstanding.
We need, as a Community, to contribute to the global discourse on access and availability of vaccines for all the peoples of the world. 
Through the COVAX initiative, all the countries in the Region have taken delivery of some vaccines, supplemented by direct procurement by some Member States. 
I thank foreign friends of the Community who have contributed to funding the initiative. 
We note, however, that the quantities received are woefully insufficient. 
We must, thus, continue to work on the purchase and production of vaccines in our Region. 
We have to encourage Members of our Community, Nigeria, Senegal, and my own country, Ghana, which are making the effort to produce their own vaccines. 
We cannot afford to be naked the next time.
The recent decision of the G7 to provide more vaccines to developing countries is commendable, just as is its decision on the taxation of multi-national companies. 
It is a first step towards addressing the illicit flow of funds, in which these multi-national companies play a major part, and which lead to the huge exodus of resources from our Continent. 
There is still more to be done.
Excellencies, beyond these challenges, we must work to achieve strong economic growth, based on the construction of resilient economies. 
Let us continue to focus on the implementation of programmes and projects, in all areas of national life, to ensure job creation and the well-being of our peoples. 
This requires that we strengthen our regional integration by pursuing the free movement of goods and people, and the development of our economic infrastructure and our human capital bases. 
In this regard, the entry into force of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), on 1st January 2021, offers us a historic opportunity to enhance our levels of intra-regional trade, and inspire the momentum for rapid economic growth. We have to rise to the occasion, and change our destiny.
Work on the Community’s single currency must also continue. 
According to our programme, the new convergence pact and the new roadmap for its implementation will be submitted for adoption during this Summit.
Excellencies, the world continues to value the work of our Organisation, which is held up as a model of regional engagement on the Continent, and we must continue to do whatever is required to strengthen it, and help realise its objectives.
Excellencies, I conclude my address by, again, welcoming you to Accra, and wishing our meeting success. 
I, hereby, declare the 59th Ordinary Session of the ECOWAS Authority of Heads of State and Government open.
I thank you for your kind attention.
Hon Members,
I would like, first and foremost, to express my gratitude, once again, to all of you for your support in electing me as Speaker of the 8th Parliament of the Republic of Ghana, in accordance with Article 95, clauses (1) and (3) of the Constitution and Orders 8 and 9 of the Standing Orders of the Parliament of Ghana. 
As I pledged to you and the Nation on the occasion of my election as Speaker, I am fully committed to serving this House and this Country faithfully and conscientiously as the Speaker for Members of Parliament and indeed all Ghanaians.
Let me also take this opportunity to congratulate each and every one of you, once again, on being elected or re-electedas a Member of the eight Parliament of the Fourth Republic. I am particularly delighted to welcome the one hundred and twenty-seven fresh hands, who are assuming your seats as Members of this House for the first time. You have now earned the privilege to be addressed in this Chamber as “Honorable”.And honorable you must be.
Whatever may have been your inspiration for choosing to embark on this path, I would like you to know that the position you now occupy as a Member of Parliament is a position of leadership, of honor, of privilege, of trust, and, above all, of service. 
Your constituents have reposed in you, as in the rest of your colleagues, an enormous amount of confidence and trust in electing you to represent them and their interests in this House of the People of Ghana.  
You have a reciprocal responsibility and obligation to serve them and the Nation with honor, and integrity.  
Remember at all times, that you lead your people best by serving themwith respect, with humility, and with diligence.
My office, together with the Office of the Clerk of Parliament and the Parliamentary Service as a whole, stands ready to assist you with a range of services and resources, including training, necessary to make your transition into your new role as smooth as possible. 
I am also confident that you will find among your returning colleagues many who are able and willing to help you navigate and learn the ropes here as quickly as you can, so that you can contribute effectively to the business of this House and make an impact within the shortest possible time.
Ultimately, responsibility for having a successful career in this House rests with you.  
Remember that, this House is a house of rules and procedures.  
Thus, knowledge and, with time, mastery, of the rules and procedures that govern the business and proceedings of this House will be indispensable to your success as a Member,as well as make my job as Speaker, all the more effective.  
May your career in this House be as long and as productive as mine has been.
Honourable Members, by the dictates of the Constitution of the Fourth Republic, some of you will, in due course, be nominated and, with the approval of this House, appointed by the President to positions in his Administration as Ministers and Deputy Ministers of State.  
During my 28-year career as a Member of Parliament, I had the opportunity to serve as a Minister of State in different capacities. 
This so-called “hybrid”feature of our Constitutional systemmeans, in effect, that a certain number of you will, at any given time, be under a duty to serve three Masters: Constituency,Parliament and the President.
Hon Members, you are well aware, of the Biblical injunction to not serve two masters, lest you become “devoted to one and despise the other.” (Matthew6:24).In your situation, it is even worse. 
You are enjoined to serve three masters.
Needless to say, our experience has shown that, in the case of Members who double as Ministers,the master that is often sacrificed and left holding the shorter end of the stick is Parliament. 
Members who are appointed to Ministerial office generally prioritize their Executive Branch roles over their Parliamentary roles.  
Scholars and students of governance have observed and noted the myriad ways in which this arrangement has served to unbalance the relationship between the Executive and Parliament and affected adversely the ability of Parliament and of MPs to carry out faithfully their representative, oversight, deliberative, and legislative roles.
Until we reform this constitutional arrangement to improve the country’s governance, however, I believe all parties or players implicated in this arrangement, namely the President, Parliament itself, and those Members appointed as Ministers, have each a responsibility to take steps to minimize the negative impact of this arrangement on the business, mandate, and performance of the House. 
As a former Member of this House, with a parliamentary career as long and as old as this 4th Republic, one thing I do know for sure is that drawing a large number of Ministers and Deputy Ministers of State from the Membership of Parliament is unhelpful to the business of Parliament and also weakens Parliament’s ability to perform its proper role in the promotion of good governance.
Be that as it may, Members appointed to serve as Ministers or Deputy Ministers must understand that, you are Members of Parliament, first and foremost. 
In fact, in most or nearly all cases, you will have earned your appointment as Minister of State on account of your position or standing as a Member of Parliament. 
It behooves such Members, therefore, to continue to take your Parliamentary roles and responsibilities seriously.  
Indeed, the anecdotal evidence suggests that, among Members who double as Ministers, those who strive to balance their responsibilities to both Branches of Government, as difficult as that may be, tend to have more successful and longer careers on both sides.
Hon Members, in the General Elections of December 7, 2020, out of which this 8th Parliament has emerged, the People of Ghana sent a loud and clear message to the political class when they voted to deny both the New Patriotic Party (NPP) and the National Democratic Congress (NDC) single-party control of the Legislative Branch. 
The score of 137 for NPP and 137 for NDC, with one Independent, the decision of no Majority Party and no Minority Party, in Parliament, is a call for us to chart a new path, to embark on new ways of transacting Parliamentary business, which you know or ought to know, is the business of the people. 
I urge the leadership of both sides of the House to put their heads together to smoothen out any bottlenecks or challenges that may impede the conduct of business in the House.
The message which these results convey, I believe, may be summed up in the common expression “enough is enough”. 
Or to put it differently,“No more business as usual.”
I believe that the People of Ghana, in voting as they did in the last elections, have signaled their frustration with and disapproval of the“Party First”mindset and the associated unbridled partisanship and partisan polarization that have taken root in our politics and are giving our option ofmulti-party democracy a bad name.
I would like to believe alsothat the first indication that this message may have begun to sink isthe very fact of my election as Speaker of Parliament, despite not being the nominee or preference of those Members whose party’s flagbearer has been declared by the Chair of the Electoral Commission as President-elect. 
I am sincerely grateful for the bipartisan approval of my speakership of this Parliament by you. 
God richly bless you all.
Hon Members, the People of Ghana would like us to prioritize the needs and concerns of the Country and of all Ghanaians above our own private or parochial interest orthe narrow interest of one or the other political party.
The People of Ghana are growing tired of politics as usual; of seeing their elected and appointed officials treat their political parties and political party identities as if those were bigger and more important than our common citizenship and as if those artificial identities were ends in themselves, as opposed to a means to the ultimate end, namely the collective progress and development of the country. 
The People of Ghana are demandingsound and effective solutions to their everyday problems, needs, frustrations, anxieties, and fears. The youth in particular wants to be inspired, motivated and given hope for a better future of unlimited opportunities. 
They want this country to grow and to prosper; to realize and live up to its full potential;to use its bountiful resources to deliver opportunity and generate prosperity and hope for its peoples. 
And they are entitled to no less.
In case we are at a loss as to what this means for the substance of the work we must do here in this House, you and I would do well to refer to the Directive Principles of State Policy, contained in Chapter Six of the Constitution.  
The Directive Principles of State Policy stands as a constant reminder to us of what duty Parliament, and Members owe, individually and collectively, to our dear Country and its People.  
In swearing fidelity to the Constitution, as we did on the occasion of our respective assumptions of office, what we undertook to do, at a minimum, is to use the public power, the privilege, and the associated opportunities and resources entrusted to us in ways and for purposes that would bring us closer as a Nation to realizing the ambitions, goals, principles, and policies we have set for ourselves in Chapter Six of the Constitution.
I entreat all of you, Hon Members of this august body, to make the Directive Principles of State Policy your primary guide to action in the discharge of the responsibilities and roles of your office. 
Together with the provisions of Chapter Five of the Constitution, including, notably, the provisions on economic rights, educational rights, cultural rights, women’s rights, children’s rights, rights of disabled persons, and rights of the sick, contained in Articles 24 through to 30 of the Constitution.
The Directive Principles of State Policy are, in essence, our own domestic version of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) whose realization we have committed ourselves internationally.  
Those ambitions, goals, principles and policies are the barometer by which we must measure our service and performance in this House.
In addressing the issue of what the people of Ghana expect of this Parliament, I would be remiss if I did not express my deepest regret,both as a former Member of this Parliament and a citizen of this great Nation, at the rather unruly behavior and commotion that took place on the floor of this House last week, including the presence of armed soldiers on the floor, and the breaches of the sanctity of a vote,that would otherwise attract severe punishment in connection with the election of the Speaker of the 8th Parliament. 
It was, to put it mildly, despicable conduct unbecoming of people of honor.
What makes it worse is the total absence of justification or reasonable excuse.  
As Speaker, I would like to believe that the spectacle of that historic day would not be repeated. 
Certainly not on my watch. 
I take a strong exception to such conduct and behavior and urge Leadership to take a serious view of it and take the necessary measures to restore the lost dignity of the august House. 
It is at variance with the message of the 2020 general elections.
Hon Members, the outcome of the recent General Elections implore us to re-dedicate ourselves to the true and coremandate and mission of Parliament. 
There appears to be some amountof confusionand misunderstanding as to what the appropriate role of Parliament is in our constitutional system.  
Much of this, is as a result of the two-party structure and composition of the House, within the context of our winner-take-all politics.
Because of this, whenever Parliament is dominated by the same partythat holds the Presidency and forms the Government, the common perception and expectation is that Parliament will automatically support the Government’s agenda, without regard to its merits.
In short, we have come to assume that Government is entitled to have its way in Parliament.  
And because this has been the Ghanaian public’s perception of how Parliament has conducted itself under various Administrations in the Fourth Republic, this current development of a House in which neither Party has a secure or dominating Majority, in other words, no Majority Party and no Minority Party,and of a Speaker who is not beholden to or endorsed by the President, is causing many of our citizens both in and out of Government, including in this House, a great deal of consternation. 
To them, if Government is not guaranteed its way in a Parliament, then such a Parliament can only be obstructionist.
Hon Members, this concern is needless, as it is based on an incorrect view of what thisParliament’s role is and indeed what its role has been in the Fourth Republic.Regardless of which party has the upper hand in the House, it would be wrong to see Parliament’s role as either obstructing or rubberstamping Government’s agenda.  
Parliament cannot discharge any one of its core mandates–deliberative, legislative, financial control, oversight, and representational–by being either obstructionist or a rubberstamp. 
As the foremost accountability institution in our constitutional system, Parliament’s role is to check-and-balance the Executive, not to obstruct or rubberstamp the Executive’s agenda. 
Parliament does its job, as it must, when it questions, investigates, reviews, and scrutinizes the Executive, its bills, its nominations, and its proposed agreements, and then proceeds to approve, to amend, or to reject them, as the case may be.
As one who comes to the Speakership with the longest record of previous service as a Member of this House, I can recount instances of Parliament playing precisely this role and, thereby, helping to improve the quality of our Nation’s governance. 
Even in the First Parliament, when the NPP’s boycott of the 1992 Parliamentary Elections left the House with no real Opposition party, bills proposed by the Executive were not accorded routine, rubber-stamp treatment; they were subjected to close review, scrutiny, and modification, where necessary. 
A case in point is the bill that later became the law criminalizing “Causing Financial Loss to the State.” 
When it was introduced in the First Parliament, the bill as drafted had no “mens rea” requirement; it would have made “causing financial loss to the State” a strict liability offence. 
I recall, and the Hansard record will show, that the amendment to add the word “willfully” to the law came from the floor of the House. 
With its almost total control of the House, the dominant Party at the time,could have simply rubberstamped the bill; it did not. 
I also recall that Parliament has had occasion in the past to decline to approve certain nominations of the President. 
A case in point was the refusal of the House to consider and to approve the nomination of a Court of appeal Judge to be appointed as Justice of the Supreme Court. 
As long as it is done in good faith and with transparent justification, such cases cannot be called rubber-stamping or obstructionist. 
As Speaker, I will not yield to pressure from any quarter to allow this august House to be turned into a rubber stamp or an obstructer.
Let me also say a few words about the office of Speaker as envisioned under our Constitution. 
While past practice might lead some to think otherwise, the truth of the matter is that, the Speakership is not a partisan-political office.  
Regardless of which party nominated or voted to elect him or her, and regardless of his or her previous political background, the Speaker of the Parliament of Ghana occupies a nonpartisan, impartial office. 
There is no NPP Speaker or NDC Speaker; there is only a Speaker of the Parliament of Ghana.
Unlike my counterpart in the American House of Representatives, the Ghanaian Speaker is not a Member of the House. 
The Ghanaian Speaker presides over but does not participate in proceedings of the House; and he or she has no vote, not even a casting vote, in matters before the House.  
In fact, the Speakership in Ghana is designed to be even more impartial and more apolitical than the Speaker of the House of Commons in Westminster.  
It is indeed to ensure that the Speaker remains impartial in presiding over the affairs of this House and Parliament that his election is done by secret ballot.
The independence and impartiality of the Speaker is particularly evident from one line in the Speaker’s Oath.
That line is not found in the Presidential Oath, the Oath of Vice-President, the Oath for Ministers of State and Cabinet, or the Oath of a Member of Parliament. 
That line reads: “And I will do right to all manner of persons in accordance with the Constitution and the laws and conventions of Parliament without fear or favor, affection or ill will.”  
That last phrase, “without fear or favor, affection or ill will”, defines the office of Speaker as an impartial, nonpartisan office. 
I assure you I don’t take this Oath lightly at all. 
The only other Oaths in the Second Schedule to the Constitution of the Fourth Republic in which you find this same language are the Judicial Oath and the Oath of the Auditor-General.  
This is because, like the Speaker, these offices too are meant to be nonpartisan, impartial, and independent.
Hon Members, much has been made of the fact that I come to this position from a long career as a politician and member of the National Democratic Congress, one of the two parties represented in this House. 
As far as I am concerned, that fact is of no consequence to my new role as Speaker. 
In fact, it is not a novelty in this House. 
I myself have worked harmoniously with Speakers of diverse political backgrounds, including on one occasion supporting the nomination for re-election as Speaker of the 4th Republic, a well-known figure of the New Patriotic Party.
But more importantly, as I have made clear, the office I now occupy is an impartial, independent, and apolitical office, akin, in that regard, to the position of a Justice or Chief Justice. 
Just as a person with a known party affiliation like myself could be appointed to the Supreme Court, so it is with the Speakership. 
What matters, above all, is that, once appointed as a Chief Justice or Justice or elected as a Speaker, that person, regardless of his political past, must conduct himself or herself in accordance with the requirements and ethics of his or her new office and, as expressed in the Oath of that office, without fear or favor, affection or ill-will.
Hon Members, I intend to live by the Oath I swore on the occasion of my election to this office, to respect, obey and abide by the will of the House. 
I am fully committed to being fair and impartial. But I am also fully committed to being firm. 
Members must also in reciprocity, respect and abide by my rulings and instructions. 
When in disagreement, the Standing Orders of the House, has the answer.
I will apply the authority of the House as symbolized by the Mace, to protect and defend the prerogatives, privileges and immunities of Parliament, members and staff as provided under the laws of the country.
Let me at this juncture, acknowledge the many contributions made by my predecessors, in whose shoes I walk today. 
The Rt. Hon Justice Daniel Francis Annan laid a solid foundation to anchor the growth and development of parliamentary law, practice and procedure in the Fourth Republican Parliament.
I acknowledge with great appreciation and respect the contributions of Rt. Hon. Peter Ala Adjetey, Rt Hon Ebenezer Sekyi-Hughes, Rt. Hon. Justice Joyce Adeline Bamford-Addo, Rt. Hon. Edward Kobla Doe Adjaho and Rt Hon. Prof. Aaron Mike Oquaye. 
I have worked with all these Speakers as a leader and a member of the Parliamentary Service Board, and I can attest to the tireless efforts each and every one of them made to consolidate, strengthen the Institution of Parliament and to build the capacity of members and staff of Parliament. 
I pledge to build on these achievements and to widen and deepen the frontiers of parliamentary governance even further.
Hon Members, some critical laws could not be passed by the previous Parliaments and these have gone into abeyance with the dissolution of the 7th Parliament. 
Draft Legislations such as the Affirmative Action Bill, Spousal Rights Bill, Standing Orders of the House which has been pending before the House since 2002, the Budget Bill, International Business and Agreements Bill, etc. calls fo0r urgent action. 
I call on the responsible sponsoring government agencies or Institutions to resubmit these Bills to the House early for consideration. 
In particular, I call on Parliament to expedt5ioiusly deal with the review of the Standing Orders of the House. 
I vision a bipartisan, inclusive, participatory, responsive, efficient and effective Parliament. 
The eight Parliament will have to work to earn the respect of the people of Ghana and to restore the image and dignity of the Institution. 
There is nothing more noble and satisfying than to render service to the people.
I would like to end by echoing the words of President Akufo-Addo, when he delivered his Message on the State of the Nation on the dissolution of the 7th Parliament (and I quote):
“The good people of Ghana have spoken and given Parliament almost equal strength on both sides of the House; we have no choice but to work with the consequences of the desires of the People.  
The House would have to be more accommodating of each other’s views and, probably, devise new ways of conducting its affairs.”
I fully subscribe to that view. No more, no less. Cooperation, dialogue, accommodation, and consensus building must guide this Parliament in the conduct of its business. 
We must work together for the betterment of Ghana and Ghanaians. 
That I believe is the demand of Ghanaians and the loud and clear message of the 2020 general elections. 
That is the message in the votes of 136 in favor of Rt Hon. Aaron Mike Oquaye, as to 138 for Hon Alban Sumana Kingsford Bagbin, with one spoilt ballot, which propelled me to this high office of Speaker of the Parliament of Ghana. 
The battle is always the Lords.Glory be to the Most High God.
I thank you for the patience and attention.
Nananom, Your Majesties, officials of the Electoral Commission, our friends from the Press, Distinguished Invited Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen: 
It is a great pleasure and honour for me to welcome you all warmly to this very important General Meeting.
Daasebre Kwebu Ewusi and I would like to thank you for your support, and for the dedication to your various roles at the committee level over the past four years, that helped us to strengthen the unity of the House and made our voice heard on national affairs.
We want to thank members of the previous House who have not returned. 
We have lost the likes of Nana Alloh, Agonahene, Sakote Naba, and others who had served this House very well.
But we are delighted that we have equally capable replacements in our expanded House. 
Among others, we have two medical doctors from Ahafo and Ashanti Regions, and a High Court Judge from Bono Region. 
I extend a special welcome to all our new members.
This meeting is a very important one because we shall be electing the new leadership of the House. 
So this is not an ordinary meeting, but a very historic one, that will define the destiny of the House and of traditional leadership in our country.
We are truly happy to see all of us here today. 
It is like the fulfilment of the sacred promise we made on our assumption of office almost four years ago, when Nana Kwebu Ewusi and I promised to serve the best interests of our people and our country.
When we took over the leadership of this House in November 2016, the total membership was fifty (50). 
A lot of work at the NHC saw the passage of LI 2409 in August this year, and the expansion of the membership of the regional houses, and the creation of six new regional houses, giving us an expanded membership of eighty (80).
Today, thanks to God, the Almighty, and the spirits of our ancestors, we will all have the privilege of either renewing the mandate of the leadership of the House, or electing a new leadership to lead us over the next four years. 
Our votes will go a long way to shape the destiny of chieftaincy in Ghana.
Nananom, our ancestors, our forebears, fought for the stools and skins that are our pride today. 
We have inherited not only their privileges, but their obligations too. 
We now have a unique opportunity to:
Preserve and contribute to the development of our heritage, that is, chieftaincy, in the motherland
Bring honour, reverence and dignity to chieftaincy
Protect the independence of chieftaincy, particularly from political interference
Earn the trust of the people of this country, and Honour our stools and our ancestors, and the oaths we have sworn to them.
It requires, among others, that, we do not:
Allow outsiders to influence the choices we make Sell our birthright, our right to make free choices, or Betray chieftaincy, and sell the noble institution to those who would destroy it.
If we do, we will be turning ourselves into a bandage that is discarded after the wound is healed. 
Let us remember that the chieftaincy institution is our heritage, a national asset, whose sanctity we all have a responsibility to protect.
Nananom, the mainstream media and social media are awash with unprecedented allegations of external forces trying to influence some members of this House with money to determine the outcome of the election of its leadership.
I decided not to respond to the numerous media houses calling to verify the truth or otherwise in these allegations. 
This conscious refusal to speak to the media on the matter is based on my avowed commitment to protecting the image of this House. 
The National House of Chiefs must not be a house of jokers, where people can sit outside and interfere in its activities by throwing money around. 
We are an assemblage of great and noble men of custom and tradition, bonded in this noble apex House as custodians of our time-tested culture and tradition.
The stools and skins that we sit on are our ancestral heritage. 
While some of our ancestors paid the ultimate price to protect them, others suffered untold hardships in defending their great kingdoms. 
Today, we are guardians of this ancestral heritage, guided by the gods in every step we take. 
This is what makes us unique and important bearers of moral uprightness.
Nananom, let us be reminded today that money was not part of the qualifying requirements for membership of this august House, and money certainly should not be the influencing consideration for electing its leadership. 
Let us resist the temptation. Let us avoid the trap set by enemies of chieftaincy, and use this opportunity to reassert our strength and influence as pinnacles of integrity, so that when we speak about corruption, Ghanaians will not tell us to purge ourselves before pontificating.
Nananom, the country needs a strong chieftaincy institution to serve as bulwark against the divisive, winner-takes-all kind of politics that has been our lot since Ghana’s return to democratic politics. 
Nananom, we have an obligation to strive to bring prosperity and happiness to our people. 
Only then can we enhance our image, dignity, nobility and reverence. And only then can we have relevance in today’s world. 
The task ahead of us is big, no doubt. 
But much bigger, are the consequences of failure.
THANK YOU, AND GOD BLESS US ALL.
The President of Ghana made bold statements during the 2nd Africa Climate Change Summit in Accra on Thursday, 17th October, 2019 to the effect that he realizes the extremely detrimental impacts that climate change is having, especially on Africa, and that Ghana is committed to reducing her carbon footprint. 
He also said climate change is the biggest threat to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.
To implement Ghana’s commitments on climate change mitigation, the President said the contribution of solar energy to Ghana’s national energy mix would reach 10% from the current 1% by 2020―a positive step but much more must be done to tap into Ghana’s vast solar energy potential.
The President also stated that nature-based solutions are at the heart of Ghana’s climate action, illustrating this commitment with government’s actions to end illegal mining that causes so much destruction to the nation’s forests, together with the restoration of Ghana’s degraded lands by planting 190,000 hectares of trees.
While these actions have some benefits, it is important to note that it takes some 20 years for a tree to contribute to climate change mitigation after being planted. 
Meanwhile Ghana’s existing natural forests are already contributing as nature-based solutions to climate change, and will continue to do so if only they can be left intact and healthy. 
Besides their importance for climate change mitigation, forests also have a crucial role in helping rural communities adapt to the increasingly extreme weather events and other impacts of climate change.
We want government to place much greater emphasis on nature-based solutions consistent with the urgency of climate change mitigation and adaptation. 
Although they provide low-cost resource-efficient responses to the challenge of climate change, natural solutions are often underestimated as we focus on manmade technologies to address climate change.
Many examples in Ghana exist. They include;
Protected and well-managed forests with high integrity and biodiversity provide carbon sinks that help mitigate climate change. 
They also protect communities from storms and help reduce flooding and landslides. 
Mountain forests such as Atewa, stabilize soils to stop landslides following heavy rains. 
Forests also cool the air, protecting people from rising temperatures caused by global warming. 
On the fringes of the Amazon Rainforest, the air over the adjacent crop fields is on average 5 degrees C higher than inside the forest. 
This temperature difference rises to 10 degrees C at the end of the dry season.
Preserving the health and integrity of wetlands helps to mitigate the intensity of floods and reduce the associated damage. 
Wetlands also help protect water resources during droughts.
Mangrove forests have proven time and again to protect coastal communities from dangerous storms and other threats such as tidal waves. 
They also provide fish spawning grounds that increase fish populations and support food security and livelihoods that may otherwise be damaged by climate change. 
Protecting and restoring natural floodplains have proved more effective against flooding than dikes. 
These nature-based solutions are cheaper and more sustainable while also providing habitats for aquatic life.
These are just a few of the ways that nature-based solutions are helping Ghana to mitigate and adapt to the impacts of climate change. 
Several organizations are involved in raising the awareness of District Assemblies of the huge value of healthy ecosystems and the services they provide, including as nature-based solutions to climate change, and supporting them to incorporate this value into Medium Term Development Plans. 
These well-intended actions need to be complemented by a strong political commitment for action that reflects the popular and flowery speeches made on big international platforms and podiums.
To show real commitment instead of just empty words in addressing the climate change challenge, we insist that Ghana’s President and government act urgently to protect and enhance existing nature-based solutions to maximize Ghana’s mitigation and adaptation capacities in the shortest possible time.
The government must ensure that all our forest reserves and protected areas are given maximum protection, and that all incidences of both ‘legal’ and illegal mining and logging are halted immediately. 
Of critical importance is the need for government to take urgent steps to protect Atewa from bauxite mining. 
Every attempt to turn a blind eye to community and civil society calls to secure Atewa only serves to demonstrate government’s big talking without any true commitment to walking the talk. 
It is crucial that Ghana takes firm action now: climate change is real and communities are already feeling its harsh impacts.
“The paradox of our time in history is that we have taller buildings, but shorter tempers; wider freeways, but narrower viewpoints; we spend more, but have less; we buy more, but enjoy it less.
We have bigger houses and smaller families; more conveniences, but less time; we have more degrees, but less sense; more knowledge, but less judgment; more experts, but more problems; more medicine, but less wellness.
We have multiplied our possessions, but reduced our values. 
We talk too much, love too seldom, and hate too often. 
We’ve learned how to make a living, but not a life; we’ve added years to life, not life to years.
We’ve been all the way to the moon and back, but have trouble crossing the street to meet the new neighbor. 
We’ve conquered outer space, but not inner space; we’ve done larger things, but not better things.
We’ve cleaned up the air, but polluted the soul; we’ve split the atom, but not our prejudice.
These are the times of fast foods and slow digestion; tall men, and short character; steep profits, and shallow relationships. 
These are the times of world peace, but domestic warfare; more leisure, but less fun; more kinds of food, but less nutrition.
These are days of two incomes, but more divorce; of fancier houses, but broken homes. 
These are days of quick trips, disposable diapers, throw away morality, one-night stands, overweight bodies, and pills that do everything from cheer to quiet to kill.
It is a time when there is much in the show window but no showcase lives.”
This long introduction was to set our minds ready for some unique paradoxes in Ghana today.
Today I’ll expose 3 paradoxes in Ghanaian society, propose 5 shifts we must make and end with a call for balance.
GHANA has a population of close to 30 million; our rebased GDP is less than GDP $50 billion.
Singapore has a population of 5million, with a GDP of  $300 billion.
Ghana with all its resources cannot generate 2300 MW consistently for her 30 m citizens.
Israel generates about 12000 MW for her less than 10 m citizens.
Today’s talk is not about the economy per se, but this comparison is an important way of showing how collectively as a society we produce one sixth less than a country we are 6 times larger than.
We need to recognize that motion doesn’t necessarily equal progress, and our activity has not resulted in the productivity we desire.
Drive across our cities and people are engaged in all kinds of activity, buying and selling, etc. the so-called kpakpakpa economy.
Our informal economy is bustling with activity, kantamanto, Abossey OKAI, Suame Magazine.
Yet collectively the whole of Kumasi, which has about two million economically active people, has on 47,000 registered taxpayers.
As a country we spent millions of dollars importing rice, Tomato paste, cooking oil and frozen chicken, all products we grow here but are unable to productively add value to.
In 2016 alone, Ghana spent $555 million on vegetable products, $592 million on foodstuffs, $643 million on plastics and rubber, $544 on animal products and $516 million on textiles.
Our economic model of exporting raw material and importing largely finished or value added products resulted in the country spending about a quarter of its GDP in 2016, a whooping 12.5 billion dollars on imports with a sizeable chunk of that amount spent on things we can produce here.
In 2011 Ghana’s economy was the fastest growing the world. 
Boosted by oil production we grew by 14%, yet the number of jobs created is still not known.
In fact the employment elasticity of the economic growth was very low, per some economists calculations.
Ghana suffers from Economic Growth, without structural transformation.
The country’s major exports are raw materials- Gold, Crude Oil, Cocoa, and Timber.
Already the mineral sector has become an enclave sector with limited participation of local companies. 
So apart from the tax revenues we get from this sector we hardly get other dividends from the sector.
We need to begin to have a conversation about value addition, productivity, and taking over the commanding heights of our economy.
These issues require deeper discussion than what pertains in parliament.
We have 70 % Christian and the rest all devout Muslims and traditionalists
We all claim to believe in God and our churches and mosques and shrines are full.
As a Christian I believe Christ came to impart life, and I believe that one evidence of fear of God, is the value we place on lies and truth, for as Christ himself said, “I have come that they may have life and have it more abundantly.”
The church seems to have lost its way in being the conscience and guide of the nation:
“Because, although they knew God, they did not glorify Him as God, nor were thankful, but became futile in their thoughts, and their foolish hearts were darkened. 22 Professing to be wise, they became fools, 23 and changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like [h] corruptible man—and birds and four-footed animals and creeping things.
24 Therefore God also gave them up to uncleanness, in the lusts of their hearts, to dishonor their bodies among themselves, 
28 And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a debased mind, to do those things which are not fitting; 29 being filled with all unrighteousness, [l]sexual immorality, wickedness, [m]covetousness, [n]maliciousness”
The church today seems to be imprisoned.
The message of prosperity has taken over and eclipsed the message of sufficiency and simplicity.
We are clapping our hands and shooting the devil, while our minds are still enslaved by the chains of greed and selfishness.
The gospel of Christ was meant to bring life, and bring it in great abundance.
But in the nation today, lives don’t really seem to matter to us.
Deaths are reported as statistics and the spate of loss of human life on our roads point to a nation, which seems to have lost its grip on what the true value of life is.
Money has been elevated over life, and there is no more truth in the land.
We no longer question the source of wealth and leaders who ought to be the conscience of the nation have become as guilty as the people they are meant to lead.
7 banks have collapsed in the space of one year, with 1000s of jobs lost, millions in invested funds disappeared into thin air, and no one has as of now been brought to book.
This is a society where people who steal dustbins are promptly jailed for 3 years, while those whose actions and inactions rob us of millions that could build schools and hospitals walk about in freedom and impunity.
Over 2000 lives perish on our roads in 2017, but for many it is business as usual.
A society that does not value life nor cherish truth is what we are fast becoming.
Over 190 had to be knocked down and killed on one main road before efforts were made to rectify the situation, and even then, winning the political argument is more important to our leaders than accepting responsibility and solving the problem.
7 hospitals could not find space to treat a sick and weak 72-year old man whose family moved him from one hospital to another in Accra, driving over 19 miles between 10 pm and 2 am.
The no bed syndrome has become a mantra for health workers, most of who go to church on Sunday or pray faithfully on Fridays.
The paradox of the religious Ghanaian who has overturned the prescriptions and priorities of the faith and replaced them with selfish personal ambition and greedy materialism, deceitfully called prosperity.
But woe to you Pharisees,
23 “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you pay tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have neglected the weightier matters of the law: justice and mercy and faith. These you ought to have done, without leaving the others undone. 
We have elevated the place of miracles, signs and wonders and neglected the weightier matters of the law, justice, faith and mercy.
We have exalted the place of money and prosperity at the expense of morals and principles.
We have idolized and deified our general overseers and yet our members do not even appreciate the basic tenets of the faith.
We have built fanatical followers of church brands, but have failed in the role of growing Disciples of Christ.
We have elevated fancy suit wearing extravagant watch clad prophetic preachers, jostling for place on our airwaves, and out doing each other on prime time television.
We have become fixated with a national cathedral when Christ has clearly said that God does not dwell in temples made with hands.
And many Christians who know better will keep silent because for them, church membership and  correctness is now like the fanatical support of their favorite football team.
But this is not surprising because it the era of the foot soldier. 
Everyone is whipped in line immediately they disagree with the views held by the unrelenting mass of party fanatics. 
And woe betide you if you cross them on social media, you could even lose your job if they make enough noise about your indiscretion.
And while these things go on, injustice & greed have created destruction for our young people.
The same youth we are promising miracles are leaving in droves via the Sahara desert and making a desperate dash for Europe.
A recent survey by the PEW Research Centre showed that 75% of Ghanaian respondents said they would live in another country if they had the means and opportunity to go.
This compared with 74% of Nigerian Respondents, 54% of Kenyans and 46% of Senegalese.
How did we get here?
A society with the right focus will make these a matter of important national conversation.
A society that has its values right will not make armchair jokes about defilement when teachers are having sexual affairs with their students.  
The proverbial stool meme become the toast of Ghanaians on social media.
Our modern day social media infused celebrity culture has produced half-baked superstars, many of whom are overexposed by underdevelopment.
We seem to have forgotten the biblical injunction of true religion-honesty, simplicity, fear of God, love and faith.
Generally the freer a media or openness in a country the more responsive duty bearers are to the needs of the people, and the more responsiveness we have, the more accountability and better quality of governance experienced.
Ghana is globally recognized for its relatively free media space, and whereas that freedom is supposed to lead to more effective governance, 
Ghana’s is a curious case with large amounts of media freedom but not the expected development that should accompany it.
As I have said elsewhere, to analyze the state of the media we need to assess the role of three important factors, Policy, which defines the rules, best practice, which tells us what’s happening elsewhere, and private sector participation, which explains who put their money into what is potentially profitable.
The Ghanaian media landscape today is therefore the combination of the efforts of government regulation through the national media commission and the national communication authority, as well as the daring ideas of the Kofi Badu’s The Kofi Koomsons, the Kwesi Twums, the Nik Amarteifios and the Osei Kwame Despites.
But effective media is not simply the existence of these institutions mentioned. 
It must have at its heart, competent, credible media practitioners who serve as the engine of that well-oiled machine.
Journalists have three basic functions in a society.
We are gatekeepers,e. we decide what is important by setting the agenda.
We are scorekeepers, we track what’s being done by public officials, elected and unelected.
We are watchdogs; we serve as a check on power by guarding the public interest.
As gatekeepers, we need to ask what kind of agenda the Ghanaian media has been collectively setting over the past 26 years of the 4th republic.
Which stories have we given prominence to? Who people have we dedicated the front pages and the morning shows to? 
And which issues have been flagged for the public to focus on?
Our scorekeeping role is no different. Performed creditably, it must measure the size and quality of the politician’s accomplishments against the grandiose nature of their promises.
It must not simply reduce the conversation to a comparison of mediocre records, but measure the delivery of services against the collective aspirations of the citizens.
On the watchdog role it must relentlessly expose wrongdoing and highlight the plight of the disadvantaged in society.
Ghana’s media has gone through an interesting evolution since the days of pre independence.
Our political leaders understood the importance of the media in shaping the national discourse, so Nkrumah edited the Evening News from around 1948/48, an important period and means of triggering positive action. 
So while Nii Kwabena Bonney was instigating the revolt, the evening news was sustaining and explaining it to the literate part of the population.
In the coup d’état years, the Acheampong government popularized the rediffusion box as a means of reaching the people.
I am told people would gather around the box, which was hung in the town centre at 1pm to listen to the news broadcast, and other kinds of information that was to follow.
The evolution of media has coincided with the kind of political system we have had over the past 63 years of independence.
GHANA’s democracy has gone through a number of evolutions, from the 1st to the 4th republic.
This constitution guaranteed media freedom and with it came the liberalization of the airwaves spawning stations like Joy FM, Radio Gold, Groove FM, and Sunshine Radio & Peace FM.
These stations came at a time the nation had been starved of the freedom of political discourse.
For many years prior to 1995, the only thing close to a political program we had on TV was Talking Point, which for most ordinary people was that boring one-hour wait before the real programme Akan Drama.
The rise of private radio stations was captivating because they introduced a format of political programming that the citizens had been starved of for years.
Radio Gold’s Wednesday programs, Ephson’s file, BB Menson, the virus, the verdict, Joy FM’s crossfire featuring the likes of Kakra Essamuah, Doe Adjaho, Tony Aidoo, Kwamena Bartels & Mawuko Zormelo.
Having opposing sides of a political argument empanel on a radio or TV show although not entirely new was such a refreshing feature of our new found media freedom.
This foundation became the template for the radio format that followed, which most political radio shows now mimic.
But 26 years into the 4th Republican democracy and over 400 radio stations later, where is the democratic dividend we were promised? 
Where is the national shaping we hoped for? 
Where are the coordinated ideas that media was to lead with this freedom?
Mathematics, Physics and Business have given us a framework for analyzing the relationship between things as they evolve over time.
The S curve shows four major stages in the development of an organization, a country or even a civilization.
It starts with introduction,rapid growth, and then the plateau, after which either steep decline or incremental growth ensues.
The 26 years of the 4th republic when put through the framework of the s-curve, can be said to have gone through at least 2 stages of development already.
Our democratic experiment begun and reached a very important stage in the year 2000, where we changed government for the first time in years.
It will be followed by his symbolic repealing of the criminal libel law and the entry into the scene of more media outlets like CITI FM, creating more space and providing further options for political discourse.
This was the beginning of the rapid growth.
In 2009 Ghana’s democratic credentials had risen so much that US President Barack Obama, appreciating the power of the moment and riding his wave of his even more unprecedented ascent as black man to the White House chose Ghana as his first country to visit on the continent.
But after 17 years of that experiment it looks like our media and politics has reached an interesting plateau where now, what used to send thrill down our ears now sends chills down our spines.
The plateau is where things begin to slow down and spirits begin to dampen.
Our politics today is dominated by fighting talk and brinkmanship by people whose main focus is how to capture power while in opposition, or retain it while in government.
The most important quality at the introduction stage is experimentation, the rapid growth stage is usually characterized by replication, but at the plateau stage, the skill most necessary for survival is reinvention.
We are at a stage where if our media and democracy don’t reinvent themselves, they will begin to stink because they will start annoying a lot of citizens who have been deprived of the national cake over the years.
Our democracy is also characterized by a constitution which has created a chief as a president.
We are hamstrung because this chief of a president (and I am not referring to Nana Akuffo Addo) has to appoint over 6000 individuals, many of whom he has may never met, including interestingly PROs of Ghana Gas Company.
The constitution in itself and the manner successive governments have interpreted it has led to a winner takes all situation which heightens political competition and tension.
The excessive powers of the presidency have created a situation where even within the same party; people jostle to be closest to the pot of soup.
The popular expression for what this has led to is “edidigya.”
Edidigya is now the biggest canker in town, which drives our political elite in creating a do-or-die situation for us every 4 years because the biggest fear among the political elite is that once you lose power or your connection to it, people will didi and gyaa you.
This situation has carried over into floor of parliament and the media studios of our media spaces.
The debates in parliament are rarely about the future of the country or about solving the problems faced by citizens.
Politicians are more interested in who wins the argument to gain political advantage, than in what needs to be done in the long-term interest of the people.
When was the last time the argument was about how many of our children are being defiled in our communities in parliament, or how many of our women are dying in childbirth or how the lack of jobs for our young people is leading to anger in the population?
When was the last time you heard a meaningful conversation about the increasing koisification and containerization of our urban spaces, where people sleep in containers near the motorway, defecate in polythene bags, and cross the road with vehicles driving over 100 kmph to get to school.
Even with all these issues, our politicians prefer comparing records in parliament.
In today’s headlines, one of them called for a comparison of records on which administration had more presidential staffers, and yesterday it was about which regime had a worse bout of dumsor and who created less unemployment?
Our political discourse is focused on winning the argument and the election than in solving the problems that we truly face.
And some have even created a forum for setting the records straight, which uses all the communication tools at its disposal to fill the airwaves with all kinds of claims that really don’t affect the lives of most people.
These days, the most coveted position in our politics is that of party communicator, with its added perks of a quick rise in the party and a possible deputy ministerial role if you bite hard enough and you punch higher than your weight.
Two full years before an election, all the talk is about 2020. 
It’s as if all we live and die for elections. 
We empanel party communicators and spokespersons to analyze issues that have no relation to their areas of expertise.
We have party communicators discussing everything from health insurance, free education and road safety and media producers gleefully watch on as these noise-makers clog the airwaves with their parochial election-aimed hot air.
Why should Ghanaians be constantly focused on politicking when other important issues are crying for attention?
What can we do to reverse this downhill slide of misplaced national priority leading to an over fixation with politics to the detriment of everything else?
If our democratic progress is not to suffer a sudden and catastrophic dip, we need to rethink our national conversation.
I now proceed to present 5 shifts in the national psyche we ought to have to reinvent our democracy and salvage society.
Our electoral democracy is going through a phase that places a different set of responsibilities on leaders and citizens.
The predominant focus has been on electoral politics. 
We must move to developmental politics.
We have perfected the art of organizing foot soldiers, rallying delegates, preparing polling station executives, sensitizing serial callers into radio programs, these have been done at the behest of training the next generation to be value-driven, honest and patriotic citizens.
Countries that are ravaged by civil war, are urged to make a transition from bullets to ballots.
But in our case, while we hold on to the ballots, let’s shift our focus from votes to visions, let’s evolve from winning the next election to securing the next generation, let’s move from a comparison of records to a refinement of ideas, let’s transition from winning the argument to winning the fight against ignorance, poverty and disease.
Let’s evolve from Vigilante groups to becoming Citizen Vigilantes, from invisible forces to creating visible change, and Azorka boys to occupying the minds of Ghanaians.
Its time for change!
Politics in Ghana too often pretends to be a contest of ideas when it is indeed and in fact a parochial battle of interests.
The private press has given a large platform for politicians to sell their message to Ghanaians.
Enough!
That era has served its term.
We need to transition from political agenda setting to a national agenda framing.
Our national conversation must take us back to a candid look at the constitution as it is and boldly embrace the changes proposed in the now abandoned constitution review process.
But to lead this drive the media itself needs to do another shift.
The modern journalist needs a new set of skills to enable her perform the vital role of national agenda shaping.
We must move from knowledge to insight.
We have to better appreciate the role of the citizen and duty bearers in this nation-building project.
We must begin to highlight the role and responsibilities of the various state actors in delivering development.
To do this effectively we must remember a few hard facts about Journalism.
Our obligation is to the truth. 
(Not NPP or NDC)
Our loyalty is to Citizens. 
(Not business interests or political parties)
Our profession in essence is a discipline of verification.
Beyond these, journalists need to develop a deep understanding of the subjects they cover, not just to allow them report the news intelligently and accurately, but to also question the basis of many assumptions that been uncontested for decades.
Economics journalists for instance ought to understand the flaws with the Neo-classical worldview, which underpins the economic models we have pursued for years.
Our work must evolve from news reporting to news analysis to cause advocacy when necessary.
In the words of Matt Winkle of Bloomberg news, “Journalists ought to understand the connections between economies, markets, companies, industries and governments.”
“They must not only understand but also appreciate the connections and relationships between these entities or information blocs because the public, our readers, listeners and viewers suffer the consequence of our ignorance.”
The third shift we must have is in the coverage of news.
The world is at the cusp of the 4th industrial revolution, the center of that revolution is information and communication, and journalists and media entities are part of the crew steering that ship on the oceans of civilization.
We cannot afford to keep reporting, “he said” and “she said”forever. 
We cannot continue to keep quoting only the people at the top.
The people ofAdenta/Madina whose roads were killing then needed a voice.
The people of Ashaiman, Abelkuma Manhean and on the N1 need to be given the microphone as well.
If we don’t highlight the problems they face and tell their stories to the world, the force of their frustration and the angst of the many years of broken promises could spill over into waves of protests we cannot contain.
As storytellers we must allow the ordinary people to vent.
We must consciously make a shift from the Top-Down news agenda to bottom up reportage.
Journalists should stop chasing politicians after press conferences, for more sound bites.
Lets go to ordinary people and allow them to share their views about the issues.
The elected and unelected bureaucrats have had their say long enough, let’s go to the marketplaces, and the lorry stations, let’s go to the farms, let’s go to the streets and the slums, let’s hear from the ordinary people!
Enough of the pontification on structural rigidities and fiscal deficits and macroeconomic mambo jumbo. 
Let’s now humanize the budget and simplify the scripts.
We must be comprehensive and detailed in our stories, accurate and balanced in our reporting, cogent and convincing in our analysis, and rigorous and unrelenting in our questioning, but also bottom up in our focus.
We must be honest enough to admit our mistakes when we discover them and be diligent enough to correct them.
The fourth shift we must have as a country is a collective shift.
My team reviewed newspaper headlines on Friday November 23, 2018, and made an interesting discovery.
We found an uncanny similarity in the headlines for the 4 or so newspapers we reviewed.
“SEC Ghana to benefit from Africa Regulator Programme”; Claude Nyarko Adams, Ghanaian Times
“Upper East to curb teenage pregnancy”. Samuel Akapule Ghanaian Times
“Ablekuma North Assembly to Maximize Revenues”- GNA, Daily Graphic
“Gov’t to Create 5 new Assemblies- Daily Graphic
“Gov’t to award contracts to vulnerable groups”- Adwoa Sarfo. Emilia Enin Abbey, Daily Graphic.
“Project to reduce impact of climate change lauded”, Seth J. Bokpe, Daily Graphic
“NPA to begin cylinder recirculation model pilot in Kumasi”, – New Weekend Crusading Guide.
Govt to begin rearing for Food and Jobs in 2019- Ministry of Agric. – New Weekend Crusading Guide
Public Sector reforms to support private sector. – Goldstreet Business
Cocobod to supply weeding machines to farmers next year- Daily Statesman
Govt to build 200,000 affordable homes for Ghanaians- 
These headlines are not a media conspiracy to abuse the future tense. 
They are a reflection of what has become too common in Ghanaian leaders’ speeches.
Promises, Intentions, Announcements and Declarations masquerading as concrete news that should make us happy.
If our national conversation ought to change, it must categorize news from the intentions of politicians to the actual accomplishments of leaders.
We must transition from the future tense of empty declarations to the past perfect tense of concrete deliverables.
We must move away from anecdotal evidence to accurate measurements.
We are in data-driven era. 
we must understand data and how numbers work.
The data era requires one important yardstick- Measurement, i.e. deadlines, timelines, quantities, values, and rates that make sense to the ordinary reader or hearer.
How many people are getting access to good health care?
How long does it take the average citizen to get treatment at a hospital?
How much time does one have to spend at the passport office to secure a passport?
How long do we spend in traffic to get to work and back?
What percentage of our waste is recycled?
How much nutrition does the average school going child get?
How many of our pupils can actually read, and write?
How long does an average asphalt road last before potholes set in?
What is the average cost of a kilometer of road in Ghana?
How much does it cost to rent a chamber and hall in kasoa?
How many people live in our slums, where do they sleep? 
What do they eat? 
How they do “number two?”
Our national conversations must be driven by cold hard facts and numbers-not sentimental wishy-washy hot air.
Finally, in reporting the reality on the ground and telling the stories we tell, we need to learn as media to bring balance; because in making these comparisons, one is tempted to be extreme.
The journalist who sits at the heart of the media space as the engine is not just a reporter of news, or an interviewer of people, or a maker of features or documentaries, she is also a mirror, showing people who they really are, and helping them define their self concept by relentlessly pursing the truth, using the various tools at his/her disposal.
Journalism at its best is light and heat, light to show people who they are, and heat to comfort the afflicted. 
Heat to also burn the chaff of waste and chase those who mismanage our resources.
We need a new narrative on Ghana, yes we must highlight the problems but also show the success stories, give a voice to the voiceless and walk the tight balance between reminding our leaders of the big problems we face without failing to give hope to the many who listen and read us daily for inspiration.
This is an important balance we must strike, if we are to drag this nation to its next level.
The future of the country doesn’t depend on hard news alone, we must encourage creative movie makers who tell us stories about our history.
We must go back to our language and go back to the days of Akan Drama, By the Fireside and TV Theatre.
We do not only need “intellectual’ hard news we must also create content that will put smiles on people’s faces.
Because media at its best is about letting people know who they truly are.
So this also goes to the content creators on TV stations, to spend money and invest in culturally refined content. 
Lets spend money on the arts, lets not spend all the resources on news, and think that in that way we can shape minds.
We must go back to creative cultural content and repossess our colonized creative spaces.
We cannot end this session without underscoring the importance of revisiting our collective work ethic.
We have to go back to the values of hard work and exertion for “the heights of nations reached and kept were not attained by sudden flight, but they while others slept, toiled their way through the night.”
To conclude, I want to leave you with a framework for national discourse. 
Topics I think the media ought to highlight in the days ahead.
Public Transport. Why should any civilized country allow the horrible trotro system to continue?
We must insist on a working BRT system, whether in this government or the next. 
The trotros we sit in are not worth human lives, and the lorry stations are not fit for purpose.  
This has to change.
We need a civilized public transport system, and the media must lead that agenda.
Public Health. 
We sunk over a billion dollars into 16 hospitals and not one of them is working as we speak, we must change from focusing on concrete buildings to how many human lives are being saved in our hospitals.
We must shift the focus to patients and to preventive health.
Quality Education. We should move the reporting from whether Free SHS or not, to what is the content of the education we are giving to pupils and how we sustain the gains in the increased enrollment in the sector?
Not forgetting that over a third of our basic schools do not  even have toilet facilities
Our growing urbanization has led to expensive rent and lack of housing, increasing crime and social vice.
Let’s stop simply reporting promises of housing projects and actually discuss the best alternatives to housing our poor.
We don’t even know whether dumsor is back or not.
The increasing spate of defilement in our schools and communities.
Where are we in the quest to make Accra the cleanest city in Africa?
We need to insist on a working recycling program and underscore the fact that every house needs a toilet. 
It’s a national disgrace for 20% of the population to do open defecation and to be consistently performing poorly in global sanitation rankings.
As evidenced in overblown contracts and deliberate tactics to frustrate citizens in getting access to legitimate state services.
Why should citizens  pay bribes to get access to their TINs? 
If it takes a bribe to get the right to pay a tax, is that not double taxation?
Enough of the corruption, we must start naming and shaming saboteurs who use public office to harass and extort from ordinary people.
We must highlight the evils of corruption on various levels and expose and punish people who steal our monies and walk about with impunity.
We must deliberately seek to highlight things that unite us and avoid over indulging in things that divide us as a nation.
We must remember that this nation was not handed to us on a silver platter. Men and women had to sacrifice their time, some lost their lives in the quest to get us independent. 
Now it’s our turn to move the nation to the next level.  
We cannot afford to fail the next generation. 
We cannot afford to be comfortable.
It is time for the new generation of the Ghanaian to arise;
Arise from the ashes of complacency, and move into the future of diligence
We must arise from the ashes of laziness and hypocrisy and move into a future of hard work and humility.
We must remember the words of the song composed by the great Ghanaian Ephraim Amu
The opposition National Democratic Congress (NDC) is accusing the Electoral Commission (EC) of making dubious attempts to rig the upcoming elections through the printing of the ballot papers.
According to the NDC, one of the seven printing houses undertaking the exercise, Assembly Press, has printed about 150,000 surplus ballots aside from the 5 percent required excess ballot papers per polling station.
The National Campaign Coordinator for the NDC, Professor Joshua Alabi who addressed the media on the matter said such irregularities will not be countenanced by the party.
“By convention and practice, the EC prints an extra 5 percent of the total registered voters in each polling station to carter for spoiled ballots but what is surprising this time is that the EC is rather printing an addition 5 percent of the total registered voters per constituency in the total number of ballot papers to be printed. 
What this translates into is that more ballot papers are being printed in excess of the 5 percent extra ballot papers required for the polling station. 
From the ballot statistics from the printing houses as coming from the EC, we (NDC) have analyzed the figure from 13 regions and observed that there is an excess of over 150,000 ballot papers been printed beyond the extra 5% required.”
“This happened at the Assembly press which is one of the contractors printing the ballot papers, and we (NDC) also found out that, the Assembly Press is printing additional ballot papers at a different location on the blind side of the agents of the political parties. 
The NDC is completely upset with the irregularities as the MD of the Assembly Press who is an appointee of the President was an aspirant who contested the NPP 2020 parliamentary primaries in the Nkawkaw constituency and the Convener of Let My Vote Count Alliance, a pressure group of the NPP.”
The Commission began the printing ballot papers for the December 7 presidential and parliamentary elections on Monday, 26th October 2020.
Seven printing houses in Accra were selected by the EC to spearhead this exercise.
There are 12 parties on the presidential ballot.
But concerns were raised about the length of this year’s presidential ballot paper owing to the unprecedented number of qualified aspirants.
The Deputy Chairman of the Electoral Commission in-charge of Corporate Services, Dr Bossman Eric Asare, however, said the challenge of more candidates can be overcome with better sensitization.
“As we enter the home stretch of the elections, the Commission will intensify its public education especially on how to properly vote as a way of reducing the number of rejected ballots,” Dr. Asare said.
Ladies and Gentlemen of the Media, you are all welcome to this emergency Press briefing. 
Thank you very much for making the time for us at such short notice.
As you may be aware, the Electoral Commission is currently printing ballot papers required for the upcoming Elections on December 7, 2020. 
By convention, and as has been done in all previous elections, Political Party Agents are deployed to monitor the printing of the ballot papers for purposes of ensuring transparency and credibility of the electoral process.
Ladies and Gentlemen, the NDC has uncovered some serious unusual and irregular happenings in the ballot printing process, which we wish to bring to the attention of the Ghanaian populace.
The Electoral Commission FAILED to provide the Ballot Statistics required for Party Agents to track the number of ballot papers to be printed for each Polling Station before printing begins. 
Meanwhile, in all previous printing exercises, Political Parties were furnished with copies of the Ballot Statistics before printing began, so Party Agents could have a checklist to validate the quantities of ballots printed.
For the current ballot printing exercise, and in a rather shocking twist of events, the Electoral Commission rather directed the NDC to receive copies of the Ballot Statistics from the Printing Houses. 
One wonders how the Electoral Commission expects our Party Agents to successfully record and track the quantities of ballot papers being printed, when printing has already started.
Again, the Electoral Commission has blatantly refused to provide Serial Numbers of the ballot papers to be printed per Polling Station to the NDC. 
Serial numbers play a very important role in ballot printing and tracking. 
Each ballot paper printed bears a unique serial number arranged in codes according to Region, District, Constituency and Polling Station. 
The essence of such an elaborate design for each ballot paper is to ensure that no two or more ballot papers bear the same serial number.
The general public will recall that in the just ended Voter Registration Exercise, the Electoral Commission itself admitted that several registrants had duplicated Voter ID numbers, a situation which the EC described as an anomaly and sought to correct under dubious circumstances without recourse to the Political Parties.
By convention and practice, the EC prints an extra 5% of the total registered voters in each polling station to cater for spoilt ballots. 
What is surprising this time around is that, the EC is rather printing an additional 5% of the total registered voters per Constituency with padding in the total number of ballot papers to be printed. 
What this translates into is that, more ballot papers are being printed in excess of the 5% extra ballot papers required per Polling Station.
From the Ballot Statistics received from the Printing Houses, as coming from the EC, we have analysed the figures from 13 regions and observed that there is an excess of over 150,000 ballot papers being printed beyond the extra 5% required.
Ladies and Gentlemen, the Assembly Press is one of the contractors printing the ballot papers. 
Just last night, the NDC found out that the Assembly Press is printing additional ballot papers in another location on its premises on the blind side of the Agents of the Political Parties.
The NDC completely abhors this irregularity, particularly, as the MD of Assembly Press (who is an appointee of the President) was an Aspirant who contested in the NPP 2020 Parliamentary Primaries in the Nkawkaw Constituency and the Convener of the Let My Vote Count Alliance (LMVCA), pro-NPP pressure group.
The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), James Oppong Boanuh, says irresponsible parenting, particularly by fathers, has contributed to the crime rate in the country as some children without fatherly care and guidance become deviants.
According to the IGP, children who end up as victims of broken homes often do not get the requisite upbringing especially from their fathers, hence their engagement in social vices.
The IGP, in a speech read for him by the Technical Director of the Ghana Police Service, COP Samuel Monney, at the Wilmar Africa Father’s Day Awards Night and Dinner, advised fathers not to shirk their responsibilities.
“We need to nurture our children to be of good behaviour. 
Today, it is common to see fathers ignore their financial responsibilities. 
It is therefore not surprising that the attention given to Father’s Day is not as much as that of Mother’s Day.”
“Most of the serious crimes that we witness today can be attributed to the increasing rate of broken homes. 
It is about time our Fathers become responsible, this way, a number of societal problems will be solved,” he added.
COP Samuel Monney assured of the commitment of the Police Service to deal with incessant robbery attacks in the country.
“We wish to assure all Ghanaians that concrete security strategies have been put in place to address the rising rate of crime, particularly armed robbery.”
Two bullion vans were attacked by robbers at two different places in the past week. 
One occurred at Jamestown in Accra, while the other one took place near Gomoa Dominase in the Central Region.
Two persons – a police officer and a trader, lost their lives in the robbery attack at Jamestown, while an unspecified amount of money was stolen by the robbers.
With the incident that occurred in the Central Region, the bullion van crew managed to escape the attack unhurt.
There have been other cases of robberies and killings reported in other parts of the country.
Some persons have suggested that the bullion van attacks and other daylight robberies recorded in the country in recent times show a failure on the part of the country’s security agencies.
Right Honourable Speaker, I am most indebted to you for the opportunity to deliver this commemorative statement to mark Africa Day which is observed the 25th of May annually by Member States of the African Union.
It is quite fortuitous that this august House resumes work after recess on this auspicious day. 
As we thank the Almighty for His grace and mercies in preserving us and bringing us together to pursue Constitutional imperatives and carry out the expectations of our constituents, we must use this significant co-incidence to reflect on how we can rekindle the Pan-African spirit and work assiduously towards achieving the dreams of our founding fathers.
Mr. Speaker, whether observed as a holiday or a working commemorative day, today is a great day for all true Pan-Africanists and friends of Africa all over the world. Since 25th May 1963, Africa Liberation Day has been observed as a constant reminder that colonialism, neocolonialism, and imperialism must be defeated in all their forms and guises. 
To the credit of our forebears, when the first Accra conference of Independent African States was called by the Osagyefo Kwame Nkrumah on 15th April 1958, only 8 African countries had been liberated from the shackles of colonialism and imperialism, however, due to their iron opposition to colonialism and granite resolve to liquidate these evils from the face of Africa – to put it in Nkrumah’s own words, they ensured the political independence struggle was won in no time.
Mr. Speaker, what has eluded our beloved continent since the victory over colonialism is economic emancipation. 
Data from the UN, World Bank and the Brookings Institution align that 70% of the world’s poorest people live in Africa which remains the last frontier in the fight against extreme poverty. 
Sadly, according to the Brookings Institution, at current trends, Africa will represent approximately 87% of the global poor by 2030 and that will mean that we shall be unable to meet Sustainable Development Goal 1 which enjoins us to eradicate extreme poverty by 2030.
Mr. Speaker, we all know that Africa is the youngest continent with almost 60% of the population under the age of 25. 
The population of sub-Saharan Africa is projected by UN data to double by 2050. 
Despite this stark reality, opportunities have been few for the continent’s youth. 
The African Development Bank reports that of the 12 million young people who enter Africa’s labour force on an annual average, only 3.1milion real jobs are created. 
In addition to limited opportunities, there is a growing feeling amongst African youth that their leadership is disconnected from them and does not appreciate their needs. 
The UNDP believes that Africa’s wide gap between the governors and the governed – the widest in the world may be a key factor. 
Whereas the average age of African Presidents is 62, the median age of Africa’s population is 19.5.
Mr. Speaker, the African youth reminiscent of the days of the West African Students Union dynamism which heralded independence on the spark of the WASU Paris and Manchester Conferences are demanding a change in living conditions and agitating for improved good governance that delivers the hopes and aspirations of an independent Africa.
Africa’s youth are no longer sitting on the fence neither are they docile, they are mobilizing and impacting greatly with the tools of the digital age. 
From the youth-led protests that ousted Sudanese strongman President Bashir in 2018, the Robert ‘Bobi Wine Ssentamu crusade in Uganda, Fees Must Fall movement in South Africa, 
The End SARS campaign in Nigeria and the Fix The Country Now agitations in Ghana – they all go beyond mere hashtags – they are the voices of millions of smart and talented activists who are determined to positively affect the fortunes of Africa by commendably staying in the continent to make their voices heard instead of embarking on a perilous expedition across the Mediterranean in search of the proverbial greener pastures in Europe.
Mr. Speaker, respectfully, we must all as leaders use this day to reflect on how we can meet the legitimate expectations of these young Africans through timely transformational leadership.
Mr. Speaker, our continent’s predicament can potentially become even more precarious when one considers the fact that the African Union failed rather abysmally to achieve its agenda of “Silencing the Guns by 2020” which was ratified in 2013 and followed by the Lusaka Road Map to end Conflict by 2020 adopted in 2016. 
Here we are in 2021, a year after the target date and unfortunately, the guns got louder instead of being silenced. 
The “Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project” reveals that by the end of 2019 Africa recorded a whopping 21,600 incidents of armed conflict. 
All around us is an insurgency moving southwards from the Sahel Region. 
We cannot feign ignorance about the havoc terrorists have wrought in many African countries not excluding Burkina Faso, Chad, Libya, Guinea, Nigeria, Cameroon, South Sudan, Central African Republic, DR Congo and Mali. Conflicts have continued in Mozambique, Ethiopia’s Tigray region, Somalia and Burundi as I speak.
We must all agree and be quaking in our boots that any continent with these characteristics: over 60% of the population under 25, massive unemployment, fewer opportunities, plentiful theatres of conflict, proliferation of small arms and a perception that leadership is disconnected presents a veritable explosive cocktail. 
All true Pan-Africanists and advocates of a peaceful and just world must be committed to urgent steps to redeem this quagmire. 
Failure is not an option.
Mr. Speaker, we must therefore commend African leaders for the Africa Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) initiative. 
Another Nkrumah vision which he long espoused and that is why it is most befitting that Ghana is privileged to host the secretariat. 
It is crucial that steps are re-doubled particularly in this era of post-COVID economic recovery to create an industrialized Africa where jobs will be readily available for the youth of the continent. 
AfCFTA must not and cannot afford to be a sleeping giant – its full economic potential must be realized in our lifetime.
The AU Agenda 2063 – “the Africa We Want” must begin to bear fruits through deliberate pragmatic policies and convince all that unlike “Silencing the Guns by 2020,” this target shall be met. 
And meeting that noble target has only one banner which the Osagyefo brilliantly captured in his 1970 book authored from his base in Conakry titled: “Africa Must Unite” – he emphatically argues – “Unless Africa is politically united under an All-African Union Government, there can be no solution to our political and economic problems. The thesis of Africa Must Unite remains unassailable.”
Mr. Speaker, as I conclude on the theme of this year’s Africa Day commemoration which is “Arts, Culture and Heritage: Levers for Building the Africa We Want” – this must lead us to remember that we have not always been a troubled continent. 
We have a most inspiring history. Historians confirm that civilization began in Africa. 
Early geographers and chroniclers speak of well-organized wealthy African states and Empires such as Ancient Egypt, Ghana Empire, Mali Empire, Songhay Empire of Gao and the great State of Kanem; not forgetting intellectual centres such as Djene and Timbuktu, whose colleges could exchange scholars with Spain and others. 
All these were long before Prince Henry the Navigator (1394-1460), Bartholomew Diaz (1488) and some ten years later Vasco da Gama all claimed to have discovered Africa.
Africa shall rise again!
Our glorious heritage shall guide us to an even more prosperous and equitable future!
May I convey to you, Mr. Speaker, an expression of my deepest gratitude.
The global chocolate industry is worth over US$150 billion. West Africa supplies 70% of the cocoa beans, but most of the value in a chocolate bar is generated in Europe and North America. West African economies receive less than US$6 billion. This is despite a growing demand for consumer chocolate in West Africa, some of which is satisfied through imports.
The pattern is typical in economies that mostly rely on exporting raw materials. 
They have to choose between generating revenue from these commodity exports and adding value to products locally. 
The trade-off arises because industries that add value take time to build up and tend to supply the domestic market first before being able to compete internationally. 
Value addition does not immediately generate foreign exchange. 
The choice is usually in favour of exporting primary commodities, because foreign exchange earnings cannot be compromised.
In a recent study, my colleagues and I showed how this dilemma plays out in Ghana’s cocoa industry. 
We also proposed a solution which preserves foreign exchange earnings while utilising Ghana’s existing marketing system to support a growing domestic chocolate industry.
Exports of raw cocoa beans are a key source of foreign exchange for Ghana’s central bank. Ghana’s cocoa sector is regulated by the state-owned marketing board Cocobod. 
Cocobod has a monopoly, through its subsidiary Cocoa Marketing Company, over the marketing of Ghanaian cocoa beans.
Cocobod, via its marketing company, obtains cheap US dollar loans on international markets, using cocoa contracts as collateral. 
With few exceptions, only contracts with multinational buyers qualify as collateral since domestic buyers tend to have poor credit ratings and small balance sheets. 
In this way, Cocobod has secured nearly US$25 billion over the past 28 years. 
The Bank of Ghana needs these US dollars to maintain a foreign reserve and stabilise local currency.
Ghana has increased its own cocoa processing in recent years, from 200,000 tonnes to 400,000 tonnes in 2019, but it mostly remains at the stage of semi-finished products. 
The major share of value in a chocolate bar is still generated abroad.
The reason is the importance of cocoa for Ghana’s foreign exchange earnings. 
Policies prioritise cocoa trade for foreign exchange rather than adding value domestically.
Cocoa processing companies in Ghana operate in an export zone called the Ghana Free Zones which gives incentives to firms that export a minimum of 70% of their products. 
They are also eligible for tax exemptions on imports of raw materials and machinery. 
So there’s support for domestic processing if the products are exported, but not if they are produced for the domestic market.
Chocolate production for the domestic consumer market is further discouraged by an extreme tax rate of nearly 60% on domestic sales of chocolate and semi-finished cocoa products. 
For example, natural cocoa butter is presently sold at an export price of around US$4,600 per tonne but sold locally at around US$7,300 per tonne.
Sales within the free zone are tax exempt, but the tax applies to domestic chocolate makers operating outside the free zone. 
These small players have a double hurdle: they must buy semi-finished cocoa products at an extreme tax rate and pay additional tax on sugar and milk imports. 
This means their chocolate products can’t compete with imported ones.
There’s another obstacle too: Ghana sells its cocoa beans in US dollars to both domestic and multinational buyers. 
This puts domestic buyers at a disadvantage against their multinational competitors. 
Multinational companies access US dollar funding via their parent companies abroad, and on a bigger balance sheet. 
Domestic companies rely on the domestic banking sector and export development banks, which have limited ability to extend US dollar credit.
Among the cocoa processing factories in Ghana are top global cocoa processors Barry Callebaut, Cargill and Olam. Only two Ghanaian owned factories, the state dominated Cocoa Processing Company (Golden Tree brand) and Niche Cocoa, make chocolate for the domestic consumer market. 
In addition and despite the tax burden, small-scale artisan chocolate makers, including 57 Chocolate, Midunu Chocolates and Omama Royal Chocolate have emerged.
Stunting their ability to add more value carries a risk. 
Ghana could fall into a trap where it cannot move beyond the stage of primary processing or low value addition. 
To truly benefit from its resource wealth in terms of income generation and job creation, Ghana has to move into higher value addition activities.
Ghana’s cocoa financing relies on offshore US dollar funding and benefits the Bank of Ghana by providing foreign reserves. 
It also benefits Cocobod by providing credit at lower interest rates than it could get in Ghana. 
We propose using the existing system to promote domestic cocoa processing.
Instead of requiring Ghanaian cocoa factories to borrow expensive US dollars to buy cocoa beans, Cocoa Marketing Company could market primary processed cocoa products to overseas buyers on behalf of domestic processors. 
Making sure the product is bought guarantees the US dollar income needed to pay for the cocoa beans that go into the products.
A review of the export zone tax on chocolate and semi-finished cocoa products should offer smaller confectionery makers access to cheaper semi-finished products. 
Niche Confectionery, for example, has shown how a tax reduction can help develop a domestic chocolate industry. 
The chocolate producer sources semi-finished cocoa products via its parent company Niche Cocoa, which benefits from the free zone tax exemptions.
A year ago, Ghana’s President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo made a powerful statement during his state visit to Switzerland, one of Ghana’s major trading partners. 
He announced that Ghana no longer wants to be dependent on the export of primary commodities, including cocoa beans. It intends to process 50% of annual cocoa domestically and, by extension, expand domestic chocolate production.
Ghana has made remarkable progress on expanding primary cocoa processing and chocolate production capacity. 
Now it is time to develop a vibrant domestic chocolate industry and benefit from a 1.3 billion strong market provided by the African Continental Free Trade Area.
The Ministry of Education has announced it will approve the textbooks and see to its publication for public basic schools by February 2020.
This follows calls by stakeholders to government to make available textbooks and learning materials for the basic schools after the introduction of its new education curriculum.
As part of ongoing reforms in the Education Sector, the Ghana Education Service (GES) launched its new education curriculum for kindergarten to primary six pupils in April, 2019.
But after the roll-out of the new standard based curriculum in September, the Education Ministry failed to approve accompanying textbooks for schools which became a topical issue.
But, in a interview with CitiNews, the head of Public Relations at the Education Ministry, Vincent Ekow Assafuah said the delay was to settle on a well-researched textbook, as they will not be put under pressure to make the books available.
The National Petroleum Authority (NPA) has confiscated 10,000 litres of diesel in its recent crackdown on sellers of poor quality fuel in the Western Region.
The exercise focused on tabletop vendors of petrol and diesel in Takoradi Metropolis, Shama and Ahanta West Districts where fuel was being sold in jerrycans, barrels and gallons.
According to the Acting Chief Executive of NPA, Hassan Tampoli these dealers have no permits from the NPA to retail petroleum products.
“They didn’t have any documents to show that they received the products from a duly licensed oil marketing company, which clearly showed that they were getting the products from unauthorized sources. 
Upon further interrogation they informed our officers that they were getting the products from Takoradi Tanker Yard. 
At the Tanker yard there was no documentation to that effect, we all do know that ignorance of the law is not an excuse so we proceeded to confiscate all the products that we seized and that’s about 10,000 litres of products which we currently have sitting at the offices of NPA in Takoradi.“
Ghana paid a total of GH¢1.9 billion in judgment debts over the last two decades, a comprehensive review by the Centre for Social Justice (CSJ), an independent social accountability entity, has revealed.
The CSJ's review of the payments from 2000 to 2019 showed that about GH¢1.4 billion of the judgment debt paid over the period arose from alleged contractual breaches by government and its agencies.
Additionally, GH¢479 million of the judgment debts resulted from compensation on land acquisition by the state, while statutory breaches accounted for GH¢29.9 million.
The study, which explored trends, patterns, causes and impact of judgment debt payments from the public coffers over the two decades, relying on data from the Sole Commissioner's Report and the Auditor-General's Report of 2011 to 2019, cited "negligence, blatant disregard for public procurement laws, illegal abrogation of contracts and corrupt activities by public officials in their line of duty" as the primary causes of the judgment debts.
At a virtual forum held to discuss the findings of the study last Thursday, the CSJ Fellow, Dr Theresa Mannah-Blankson, said they had discovered huge amounts of outstanding judgment debts which could further deplete the national coffers.
"While the findings were based on actual payments made between 2000 and 2019, our review showed staggering amounts of outstanding judgment debts. 
For example, the Auditor-General's Report showed that for 2017 alone, GH¢411.6 million was outstanding," she said.
The Assistant Professor of Finance and Economy at the University of North Carolina, US, said the payment of huge judgment debts and constant accumulation of the debts by successive governments was a major threat to national development.
For instance, she revealed that the GH¢1.9 billion paid in judgment debts as of 2019 was equivalent to 135 per cent of new multilateral loans contracted in 2019; 112 per cent of the total central government grants received in 2019 and 30 per cent of health expenditure for that same year.
The CSJ fellow added that the recurring judgment debts were worrying, given that the country was grappling with a myriad of development challenges such as rising public debts, persistent deficits, high youth unemployment and over 30 per cent of the population living in poverty.
Dr Mannah-Blankson called for institutional arrangements and legal reforms to ensure efficient delivery of government business in a manner that would guard against judgment debts.
From the legal perspective, she called on the Special Prosecutor to independently investigate all judgment debts in the Fourth Republic and prosecute all offenders.
Similarly, she said it was important for the Attorney-General to ensure that only trained or expert lawyers were allowed to prosecute cases to avoid recurring judgment debts.
Among other things, she proposed the formulation of a judgment debt management policy and the maintenance of a register of all contracts entered into by government entities, "which must be reviewed by the Audit Service before they are executed."
She also stressed the need for the procurement laws to be strictly followed while adopting human resource practices that ensured hired public officials adhere to the ethics of governance.
For his part, a former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Ghana, Professor Ernest Aryeetey, described the review of the CSJ as revealing and called for people in authority to act swiftly to address the issues of judgment debt.
He said given that the country had limited resources at its disposal, no room should be allowed for slippages through judgment debts.
He called for a holistic look at sustainable ways of dealing with judgment debts devoid of political games.
The Minister for Trade and Industry, Alan Kyerematen has described Ghana’s partnership with Toyota Tsuho as a game-changer after the official commissioning of the program.
Mr. Kyerematen led a team of high-powered government delegation to commission the ultramodern assembling plant for Toyota vehicles under the Tsuho Manufacturing firm.
The latest technological partnership, the third after Volkswagen Ghana and Kantanka Automobile Industries, is expected to help reduce import figures by a considerable percentage.
Speaking at the official commissioning ceremony, the Trade Minister highlighted the economical benefits of the partnership as part of five major reasons behind the deal.
“The government’s decision to establish automobile industry in Ghana was to achieve some strategic objectives which include the following; to establish a fully integrated and competitive industrial hub for automotive assembling in collaboration with the private sector; to generate highly skilled jobs in automotive assembly and the manufacture of components and parts, with spillover effects into other sectors of the economy; and to establish an asset-based vehicle financing scheme for locally assembled vehicles to ensure affordability for vehicle buyers;
“Again, government seeks to improve balance of payments through competitive import substitution and export market development; and improve vehicle safety and environmental standards; as well as transform the quality of the national road transport fleet and safeguard the natural environment”, he explained.
On the potential benefits Ghana stands to gain from the partnership, the Sector Minister described the latest deal as a step in the right direction.
“Ghana imports over 100,000 vehicles per annum, which makes motor vehicles among the leading imported commodities into the country, accounting for about 15% of the annual import bill. 
The development of the automotive industry in Ghana, therefore, is a game-changer for the Ghanaian economy aimed at significantly reducing our import bills and contributes towards improving the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP)”, the Trade Minister added.
The Minister also revealed plans by government to empower Ghanaians in the production of vehicular parts to ease the importation burden alongside ensuring job creation.
“In addition to this and to ensure the systematic progression of registered assemblers into manufacturing of vehicles, the government has prioritized the development of components and parts manufacturing through a local partnership with foreign multinational companies.
“In pursuit of this, the Ministry of Trade and Industry is collaborating with the Africa Association of Automotive Manufacturers (AAAM) and other relevant stakeholders to develop and implement a comprehensive Supplier Development Programme aimed at creating viable domestic enterprises capable of supplying components for local assembly and the global supply chain,” Mr. Alan Kyerematen told the press.
The Minister of Energy, Dr Matthew Opoku Prempeh, has said the Government is working towards boosting Ghana's industrialisation with clean and reliable energy systems, such as nuclear and renewables.
He said there was a growing consensus that nuclear energy had an important role in decarbonising electricity generation for accelerated industrial development.
“While renewable energy sources are expected to continue to grow significantly, nuclear power, an important part of today’s clear energy, is also the largest source of lower-carbon electricity generation in advanced economies, providing approximately 40 percent of all low carbon generations,” he said.
He referred to an International Energy Agency report on clean energy system asserting that without nuclear investment, achieving a sustainable energy system would be much harder with implications to emissions, cost and energy security.
Dr Opoku Prempeh stated this, in a speech read on his behalf, at a Stakeholders Forum on Ghana’s Nuclear Power Programme in Accra.
Under the theme: “Nuclear Energy Innovations: The Future Technologies for Clean Energy and how to drive deep decarbonisation of Ghana’s power sector", the forum was organised by the Association of Ghana Industries (AGI), in collaboration with Nuclear Power Ghana (NPG).
Dr Opoku Prempeh noted that turning to clean energy systems for electricity generation would also decarbonise other areas, such as transportation, and other environmental pollution activities.
"Within Ghana’s power generation side, issues on consistent demand growth, high tariff for industries, affordability, reliability, and resilience criteria have brought to the fore the issue of an alternative base-load power," he stated.
Considering the facts available on the country's energy needs, capacity, cost and other related issues, nuclear energy, he said, could provide that alternative clean base-load power.
“A new nuclear power station does not only generate reliable low carbon electricity but also provides wider social-economic benefits both during its development, construction and the subsequent 60 years that the plant would be in operation.”
He recalled that in 2007, former President John Agyekum Kufuor set up a committee, chaired by Professor Daniel Adzei-Bekoe, to explore the possibility of Ghana using nuclear energy as an alternative based-load source of power.
This was around the time that Ghana was faced with supply power challenges.
To sustain the natural progression of the country’s technological energy advancement, he noted, subsequent governments had supported this effort to improve the country’s energy security to provide leadership and resources to facilitate the nuclear power programme.
This has given birth to the NPG to become the owner/operator of Ghana’s first nuclear power plant.
He said the NPG Board, under the chairmanship of Mr Fred Oware, was focused on providing relevant resources to build a strong safety culture and resilience management systems that adhered to standards in the planning and development of nuclear infrastructure and related activities across the country.
In addition to electricity generation, nuclear energy, the Minister said, could provide solutions to an even wider range of applications - those innovative nuclear technologies such as small modular reactors would complement existing large reactors to enable deep decarbonization as part of the clean energy transition.
"Nuclear technologies are equally improving people’s lives in many other ways and are supporting sustainable developments," he said.
"Medical, industry and agriculture applications of nuclear technology are in use all over the world, including Ghana.
Ghana's vision for industrialisation is on course and yielding very positive results.
To this end, all stakeholders must diligently deliver on their roles, duties and responsibilities to ensure the full objective of the government’s industrialisation vision is manifested.
A Deputy Minister-designate for the Ministry of Trade and Industry, Herbert Krapa, made this known when he took his turn to be vetted by Parliament’s Appointments Committee on Tuesday.
The legal practitioner who also has expertise in development finance asserted that, "a critical assessment shows that the 10-Point Industrial Transformational Agenda of the Nana Addo led government, which is being spearheaded by the venerable Hon Alan Kyerematen is coming together" and creating opportunities for job creation and value addition.
The Agenda includes National Industrial Revitalisation Programme, One District One Factory (1D1F), Strategic Anchor Industries, Industrial Parks and Special Economic Zones and Development of small and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs).
The rest are Export Development Programme, Enhancing Domestic Retail Infrastructure, Business Regulatory Reforms, Industrial sub-contracting exchange and Improving Public-Private sector Dialogue.
He elaborated that the One District One Factory programme for instance, had so far birthed 232 factories, out of which 76 were fully running, 107 at different stages of construction and about 49 approved to commence. 
The 76 alone have employed 140,000 people directly and indirectly.
According to the nominee, under the National Industrial Revitalisation Programme, substantial support has been given to viable but economically distressed companies to help them continue production.
Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) have also received support to help them increase production, employ more staff and improve on the quality of their products and services.
The NBSSI has in that regard been transformed into the Ghana Enterprise Agency so that SMEs who contribute about 70 percent to Ghana’s GDP will be given more support and attention to grow, generate more revenue and employ more people.
Touching on Strategic Anchor Industries, the Deputy Minister Designate explained that it is a pillar of the industrial growth and transformation agenda intended to diversify the export base of the economy beyond the traditional industries.
It is for this reason, according to Mr Krapa, that the government has an agenda to create Industrial parks in each of the sixteen (16) regions in the country to boost industrialisation. 
Closely connected to this plan is the creation of the Special Economic Zones for non traditional industries like Agro processing, Pharmaceutical, Integrated Aluminium, Iron and Steel Industry as well as Auto mobile and Vehicle Assembly.
Others are Textiles, Garments and Apparel sector, Industrial Salt, Petrochemicals, Manufacturing of Machines and Machinery Components as well as Industrial Starch and Oil Palm Industry.
Mr. Krapa believes that these inroads have contributed to the gains that are being made in terms of the industrialisation vision of the President and the government adding that “industrialisation may not happen overnight but the building blocks are being put in place to ensure the vision sees the light of day.”
He commended the Minister, Hon Alan Kyerematen, and the staff of the Ministry for the work done towards industrialising the country and pledged to assist the Minister to achieve the “revolutionary vision of the government.”
Most top positions in the mining sector are now being occupied by Ghanaians, President of the Ghana Chamber of Mines, Eric Asubonteng, has said.
He noted that out of the total number of direct mine employees, only 1.2 per cent are expatriates while the overwhelming majority remain Ghanaian nationals.
“Let me state emphatically that gone are the days when expatriates occupied all the key management roles on mine sites. 
Today, highly skilled Ghanaian mining professionals are occupying key positions at all levels of our industry, much to the satisfaction of our now actively discerning investors and stakeholders.”
“Interestingly, Ghanaian mining professionals are in high demand on the global market, as many of our colleagues have taken up management roles as expatriates, in both developed and emerging mining destinations across the globe,” he added.
The mining sector employed 1,790 more people in 2019 increasing the total workforce engaged directly by mining companies to 11,899 compared to 10,109 in 2018, according to the 2019 Annual report of the Chamber of Mines released today, Friday, 29 May 2020.
Ladies and gentlemen, let me start off by saying that as a frequent traveller to many African countries, I must admit that it will be hugely unfair not to acknowledge the progress this country has made since independence.
That said, we must guard against complacency and must be alert to any challenges that undermine the gains we have made. 
Given our endowment, both human and natural , we can and should do much better. 
In any case, the point ought to be made that we really ought not to take comfort in comparing ourselves to the rest of Africa.
We must compare ourselves to the rest of the world. 
And it is in that context that I will like to share with you my reflections on the challenges that can be an impediment to our country’s progress if not addressed with urgency and determination .
A lot of what I will be talking about is not new to any of us. 
They are things we mutter about at home and when we meet friends but reluctant to articulate them publicly. 
In this regard, let me make the observation that in a large measure our attitude is informed by partisan reasons or fear of recrimination.
Of course we have all been witnesses to how political parties use the social media to unleash their attack dogs on critics. 
The fear is real but let me state without equivocation that in succumbing to our fears we actually make matters worse because impunity and mendacity reign supreme. As the saying goes, fear is the path to the dark side. 
We must find our voices otherwise we become okay with the ills of society or that we become powerless. 
Either way, we will be the worse for it. 
A wise man once said that the necessary condition for evil to triumph is for good people to remain silent.
So, whatever we do, we must never keep quiet about the problems we face, the solutions to them and the prospects for a better future. 
Indeed, in his inaugural address in 2016, our President, Nana Akufo Addo entreated us to be active participants and not be mere spectators in the affairs of our country.
Ladies and Gentlemen, I will start off by talking about that which concerns, or ought to concern all of us, and that which keeps me awake at night. 
And it is about the state of the economy and its prospects going forward. 
As an investor, I know what an economy should look like to attract the necessary investment for national development.
Available data indicates that for the first quarter of 2020, GDP grew at a rate of 4.6%, contracted to -3.2% for the second quarter and -1.1% for the third quarter, giving an average outturn of 0.2% for the three quarters of the year. 
For the same period in 2019, the economy grew at the rate of 6%. 
At the end of the third quarter, the industry sector contracted at -3.1% while services grew at 1.9%.
Only the agriculture sector increased in its growth rate recording 4.5% at the end of the third quarter as compared to 3.7% for the same period in 2019. 
This is telling us something, right? 
Even though government revenue exceeded the revised target for the year, expenditure also exceeded the revised target leading to the end of year fiscal deficit of 11.7% of GDP.
Ladies and Gentlemen, one of the most alarming aspects of our macroeconomic situation is the debt crisis. 
As at the end of 2020, total public debt reached GHC 291.6 billion representing 76.1% of GDP. 
A nominal increase of about GHc 149.3 Billion since January 2017. 
In 2018, the debt to GDP ratio was 59.1%, increased to 62.4% in 2019 and to 76.1% in 2020. 
New bonds have since been issued.
The domestic debt component is 51.4% of total debt while external debt is 48.6%. Of course, we all know the effect this has on access to credit by the private sector for investment. 
But the bigger question is how are all these debts going to be repaid? 
This question is important because if you look at our expenditure profile, the top two items are the emoluments of government employees and interest payments on existing debts. 
Thus we are borrowing to consume and to service existing debts rather than for productive investment.
In 2020, the emoluments of government employees represented 28.3% of total expenditure while interest payments amounted to 24.6% of total expenditure. 
Capital expenditure was only 12.1% of total expenditure in 2020. 
And this is not abating soon. In fact in 2021, the budget estimates indicate that interest payments will exceed even emoluments of government employees to become the number one line item in our expenditure profile. 
This is why some economists argue that the ratio of debt servicing capacity to debt stock is a better measure of sustainability than debt to GDP ratio. 
But this is another discussion for another day.
Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at the main drivers of the economy and their prospects going into the future. 
Take mining for instance, and here I refer to gold mining because it is the most significant mineral in the mining sector. 
Like all minerals,Gold is a depleting resource. 
It is irreplaceable.
Not too long ago, South Africa was by far the biggest producer of gold in the world; in 1994 out of a total global production of 81 million ounces, South Africa alone produced more than 20 million ounces, representing 25%. Ghana did not even register as one of the major producers. 
In 2020, South Africa’s share of global production is only 3%, and it has lost the top spot even in Africa. 
Ghana now enjoys the enviable position as the biggest producer in Africa. 
But 40 years from now, who can say for sure that we will still be producing gold here? 
As for our newly found jewel, Oil, a lot of countries are talking about green energy and alternatives to fossil fuels due to the phenomenon of climate change.
Most countries are making plans to ban or phase out the use of fossil fuels in the near future. 
So 40 years from now, what would be the demand for oil? That is if we still have some. 
Meanwhile, remittances from Ghanaians in the diaspora which is one of the main sources of foreign exchange for Ghana is also at risk due to major generational changes.
Again, 40 years from now, it is not certain whether the next generation of Ghanaians in the diaspora will feel so attached to families here as to be sending money to take care of them or build houses here. 
To put it in context, this source represents a significant part of our national income.
Ladies and gentlemen, I recently read about a rather disturbing information about cocoa. 
The Chinese having helped pollute our rivers through illegal mining activities and having, in connivance with some Ghanaians acquired large tracks of farmlands in the cocoa growing areas have started producing their own cocoa. Their illicit mining activities release mercury into the soil.
Mercury is indestructible and traces have been found in some of our cocoa beans. 
What this means is that even our traditional source of revenue from which thousands of farmers obtain their livelihoods is no longer secure, as we risk losing the premium quality of our cocoa. 
This is a terrible prospect and it is one that must be tackled with a renewed sense of urgency.
Ladies and Gentlemen, the inevitable conclusion from all of this is that the sustainability of our current sources of revenue is under threat. 
We are borrowing huge sums of money for our children and grandchildren to pay yet we are not seeing realistic strategies that assure us of our capacity to pay back. 
How are the 30-year, 40-year bonds going to be paid?
I am afraid that unless there are clear plans to ensure that the economy creates jobs, reduces poverty and improves upon the quality of life of the average Ghanaian, a sense of hopelessness and helplessness will be the lot of our children and grandchildren. 
The debt will suffocate them. This is what concerns me.
How do we avoid this situation? 
Well in my view, we can only do so through investment in all sectors of the economy; 
I will now put on my investor cap and ask this question.
Given that I have a choice in where I put my money, what will I like to see in my country to make it the preferred destination for my investment? 
Every investor has got a choice. 
So I am asking you if you were an investor, what would you like to see in a Ghanaian business environment which will make you want to put your capital here. 
We are all celebrating the good news of Ghana being chosen as the host of the Africa Free Trade Secretariat and the Government should be commended for this remarkable development.
However, we can only realise the benefits if we become the most competitive economy on the continent. 
We are nowhere there. I’m afraid we have a lot of work to do to attain this status.
A research and advisory firm Konfidant, reported that Ghana fell short on almost all AFCFTA competitive indicators. 
These are; Cost of credit, cost of power, productive capacity, customs efficiency, trade logistics and Dependency on foreign input.
Investment promotion is like a beauty pageant. 
The reward goes to the country which is adjudged to be the most attractive as an investment destination. 
What conditions create the conducive environment for investment in any country ? Let us look at our situation.
One of the key considerations for investment is governance. 
We have elected governments since 1992 to steer our affairs. 
But the very nature of our democratic setup is our undoing. 
The three arms of government are like a tripod. 
For stability, each leg must have enough strength to stand. 
In our system, one leg i.e the executive has more strength than the other two combined. 
In fact, the two seem to derive their strengths from that of the executive, thus weakening checks and balances.
Any party that comes to power has absolute power to do whatever they want. 
The 1992 Constitution is the basis for the current democratic dispensation. 
It created a monstrous executive which looms large over the other arms of the governance structure, and for 28 years, we have failed to make any meaningful changes to strengthen our democracy.
Actually, what we have is an “Executocracy” not a democracy. 
The President is supposed to appoint the majority of his ministers from Parliament. 
By definition, that makes Parliament a rubber stamp, because no MP in the ruling party will be able to stand up and demand accountability from the executive – they are all scrambling for positions! 
The Judiciary is no different. 
The President has a determining role in the appointment of all the judges of the Supreme Court including the Chief Justice. 
This festers the perception that the situation compromises the impartiality and independence of the judiciary. 
Indeed a large section of the citizenry believe that the judiciary is not impartial with 85% of Ghanaians in a recent Afrobarometer survey perceiving the judiciary as corrupt and ineffective.
My own personal experience with the judiciary is that of frustration, lengthy and costly proceedings. 
Some lawyers take pride in being masters of legal gymnastics. 
Every opportunity to delay cases are seized. 
The Commercial Courts which were set up to speed up the dispensation of justice have been a huge disappointment. 
Disputes involving land overwhelm the courts. 
Land acquisition is a most important factor in investment decision making. 
Any prolonged litigation over land frustrates the investor.
It has been said that the enclave that houses the lands commission, lands evaluation and title deeds registry is arguably the most corrupt enclave in the world. 
It cannot be good for investment. 
But corruption pervades all aspects of our governance system. 
Few years ago, a prominent member of parliament said publicly that parliamentarians take bribes to pass bills that favour their sponsors. 
Ladies and gentlemen, if a fish comes out from water to tell us that the crocodile has one eye, who are we to doubt it? 
Incidentally, the said MP is now the Speaker of Parliament, Hon. Alban Bagbin.
Our governments pay lip service to anti-corruption but do little substantially to cure the canker. 
Which of the major corruption issues has been conclusively dealt with since the fourth Republic began? 
There have been major corruption scandals and none has been conclusively dealt with.
I could give you a long list of unsolved corruption cases but there is no need to bore you with something you are all so familiar with. 
As a friend of mine will say, the problem with corruption is not the absence of laws, but the certainty of punishment. 
Sadly, there is rather certainty that corrupt people especially in high places will never face punishment. 
And this has bred impunity in those who would rather take it all for themselves through dubious means than serve the common good.
We cannot go anywhere if this situation continues. 
No country can develop without dealing decisively with corruption.
Days ago, we read shocking news of two teenagers who were arrested for killing a 10-year-old boy for money rituals. 
This sparked extensive discussion on mainstream as well as social media. 
Many Ghanaians were expectedly shocked that children of this age were so moved by money that they allegedly killed a human being to get it. 
But if we were to reflect, we would know that this was merely a symptom of a much more deep-seated problem with the entire Ghanaian society.
When our children watch TV, what do they see? Too much religiosity without morality; pastors displaying uncouth behaviour by stepping on pregnant women and slapping congregants; people showing how money can be made without hard work, and when they copy what they see, we appear shocked. 
Let us stop the pretence!
Ladies and gentlemen, what is baffling is that those who used to have voices on these things seem to have lost their voices. 
People speak on issues based on who is in power. 
Is our deafening silence suggesting that we are no longer concerned about issues that we complained about not too long ago, particularly when those issues persist….. 
The molestation of and in some cases assassination of journalists, murder of MPs, corruption, the harassment of anti-corruption agents.
We have just finished another election, the 8th in the series since the beginning of our fourth Republican democratic experiment. 
As usual, the accolades came in from all corners of the world, and we took them with pride. What we failed to tell the world is that some people lost their lives in the course of the election. 
No election is as important as to warrant the loss of even one life. 
And the silence over it is numbing as it gives the impression that it is okay, and it is to be expected.
No it is not to be expected. 
One of the saddest moments for me was after the State of the Nation address when an MP was asked why there had not been serious outpouring of grief about the death of the innocent people in Techiman , his response was that as far as he was concerned, they were undeserving of any sympathy because he saw them as armed robbers. 
For me, that was a new low for the country.
We also witnessed arguably the biggest assault on our democracy since the beginning of the Fourth Republic when on the eve of the swearing-in of the President at a time when there were no ministers, and crucially there was no minister of defence, armed soldiers that is to say, officers from an institution that works by command, invaded our Parliament and up till date, no serious answers have been provided.
This could have had grave consequences and for the future of our country, the least the country deserves is a public enquiry. Have we become so numb to these things?
The indiscipline on our roads has become a nightmare. 
Last year, about 1115 people lost their lives or got seriously injured due to. Road accidents, a 22% increase over the 2019 figures according to the bureau of public safety. 
For the first three months of this year alone, more than 700 people died from Road accidents. 
By comparison, COVID 19 has killed about 760 people over a one year period. 
Clearly, indiscipline on our roads is more deadly than corona virus.
Our media landscape is so polarised and partisan. 
There is hardly any objectivity, because a lot of the media stations are owned by politicians whose interest is in swaying voters one way or the other. 
Independent media practice seems to have faded and journalism has become a conveyor belt for political propaganda, insults, and acrimony.
What is the status of the role of the media in holding the executive, judiciary, and legislature accountable as the fourth estate of the realm? Is it enough to just report issues. 
Where are the investigations? 
Where are the facts? 
These are hard questions that the media must ask and re-assess its role in reshaping our country’s future.
In the past, when all had failed, academia was the last vanguard. 
We all remember the role that the Legon Observer played. 
Under the hallowed cloak of academic freedom, men and women of conscience could write and speak words that penetrated the halls of power. 
It appears to me that in recent times in our fourth Republican dispensation, the courage to stand up for the truth and the determination to uphold the common good are lost. 
In our dark moments as a nation, it is concerning that the voices of the intellectuals are receding into oblivion. 
Sadly, it is a consequence of the deep partisan polarisation of our country such that everything is seen through the lenses of politics. 
It appears to me that the culture of silence has returned. 
This time not enforced by legal and military power but through convenience, parochialism, hypocrisy and lack of conviction. 
Where are our Adu Boahens and PAV ANSAHs?
Ladies and gentlemen, where do we go from here? 
If we were to listen to the voice of the over-the-hill, the over 70s who have seen it all, what would be their advice for the future of this country? 
Well, this is the advice of the over-the-hill crowd who have been of service and are very confident that a word to the wise is enough. 
As the Bible says, those who have ears, let them hear.
First, to have a meaningful democracy, we cannot continue on the path of a tripod with one leg stronger than the other two combined. 
We must commit to review the experiment with the aim of strengthening accountability and ensuring that democracy delivers real development to the people. 
Democracy is meaningless unless it is capable of improving the living standards of the people and providing decent living conditions for at least the very poor in our society. 
To achieve this, the constitution must change.
Second, we must re-evaluate the structure of our economy. 
No country has attained the height of development unless the major drivers of the economy are owned and controlled largely by the citizenry. 
Take a look at the major drivers of the Ghanaian economy in the financial sector, the mining sector, construction of major projects, telecommunications, oil and gas, insurance etc.
These are often predominantly foreign-owned, and Ghanaians own little in these sectors. 
For example, according to PwC, as of June 2019, only nine (9) out of 23 Class 1 licensed banks had majority local ownership with the rest being majority foreign-owned. 
In the mining sector, Ghana has more than 20 mining companies at various stages of operation in the country. 
As far as am aware no Ghanaian business man or woman has 5% of the ownership in any of these companies. 
The situation is not different from what pertains in the oil sector. 
I note with some satisfaction the efforts of the government to empowering Ghanaians in the economy.
In this regard, I pray we will learn from the experiences of Malaysia and South Africa. 
In Malaysia, the promotion of what they called “bumiputra” (Malay sons of the soil) policies as an attempt to empower local businesses in an affirmative manner led to massive corruption and cronyism. 
South Africa’s Black Economic Empowerment Program (BEE) suffered the same fate. 
Even though these programmes were well intended, their implementation gave room for political patronage and clientelism leading to the consequences noted above. 
We must therefore be guarded in the implementation of this initiative.. 
We can empower our own people without creating seasonal local entrepreneurs through political patronage or “create, loot and share” schemes disguised as investments. 
Tribal and ethnocentric considerations, family affiliation and friendships must not be the defining routes to gain business opportunities.
Third, we need to develop our industrial base. 
We cannot develop by importing almost everything from food to tooth pick. 
The One District One Factory (1D1F) flagship initiative is laudable but quite frankly we need a lot more than that to develop an industrial base.
And by the way, where is the industrial base or foundation laid by Kwame Nkrumah in the 60s? 
At the time, there was an understanding that there were no Ghanaian businesses with enough capital to venture into setting up industries.
So the state took it upon itself to drive industrialisation and build the foundation for take-off. 
According to some records over 100 factories were built across the regions and producing almost everything we needed at the time. 
Today we still export mainly primary commodities and import finished products for consumption. From 2010 to 2019, we spent $3.9 billion importing processed rice mainly from Asia, that is an average of almost $400 million or more than GHC 2 billion per year. 
Over the same period, we spent $2.4 billion on sugar imports that is about GHC 13 billion. 
This cannot continue.
The last but not least, we must completely overhaul our educational system. 
I am not talking about the duration of school. 
I am talking about the quality of education and the prioritisation of what our children are taught. 
A useful educational system must be able to groom young people to believe in themselves and to have the necessary skills and attitudes to form an effective, efficient labour force. 
As the legendary Dr. Kwegyir Aggrey opined, our education must train the heads, hands and heart of our youth.
This calls for not only Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics, but also vocational and technical education. 
Our inordinate obsession with degrees and certificates has turned most of our graduates into “certificated unemployables” hardly suited to the needs of industry. 
Are we preparing our graduates for the new skills sets needed for the future? 
This is why I have never understood the kind of logic that informed the conversion of polytechnics into universities. 
Technical and vocational education have been crucial in Germany’s development. 
Let us relook at our priorities and reform the educational system, shifting away from grades and certificates to technical know-how, values and attitude building; an educational system which inculcates into our young people flexibility and adaptability; communication and emotional intelligence; creativity and innovation as well as ethical leadership skills. 
This is the only way we can compete in the 21st century, and from my perspective, we do not lack the human and material resources to create that kind of system. 
We must shape the future we desire for our country today!
In conclusion, the older folks remember the inspirational lyrics of the wonderful highlife music, “Work and Happiness”. 
It is characteristic of the times in which it was produced. Today’s music, well maybe I am too old, but one can hardly understand the lyrics or what they are supposed to inspire. 
A contemporary musician Adangba however asks a good question which I will like to ask all of us: “who go say the truth”? 
On that note, I urge all of us to speak up, for the good of our country, now and in the future. 
A wise man once said that the necessary condition for evil to triumph is for good people to remain silent.
Thank you for your kind attention.
Businessman Sir Sam Jonah says the global outbreak of COVID-19 presents unique challenges that require that young people most especially reinvent themselves and adapt to the new ways of doing things to remain relevant.
He said the prevailing situation has changed so many things and as such it will no longer be “business as usual.”
According to him, companies will now be looking at people with skills that are relevant to navigating the period.
While addressing the 9th Joint Graduation Ceremony of the Kofi Annan International Peacekeeping Training Centre on the theme, “Providing Skills to Meet Business and Human Security Needs in Uncertain Times,” the businessman shared five skills and competencies he believes today’s youth need to stay relevant to industry.
Below are the five important skills highlighted in the address
Flexibility and adaptability are crucial skills that every employer will be keeping an eye out for. 
Being flexible and adaptable is something that most firms and employees have had to get used to over the last couple of months. 
As businesses globally see a sharp rise in the number of employees being able to work from home, it’s likely paradigm shift will last even after the pandemic is over. 
While being flexible in work was once aligned with geographic mobility, it is now about having an open mindset, being able to work well under pressure, adjusting to new and unexpected deadlines, prioritizing tasks and, in some instances taking on additional responsibilities. 
Employers will be paying attention to staff who are flexible in their approach and execution of their daily duties such as productively working from home, capable of working on the go, adapting to new work schedules and operating with hitherto unknown systems.
Undoubtedly, the workplace is rapidly becoming more tech focused, and we are now well and truly progressing to a fully realized digital age. 
Employers will not want to just invest in technologies but in people who understand and appreciate the importance of technology. 
Although it’s unlikely that all employees will need to know every system or platform, demonstrating a firm working knowledge of data literacy, computer programming, big data, Cloud computing, artificial intelligence (AI), blockchain and more, will help catapult an employee’s marketability above their peers. 
Pre-coronavirus, the widening of digital skills gap was ostensible across business worldwide. 
82 percent of job vacancies now require some minimum digital skills. COVID-19 has however accelerated the frantic need for specialist digital skillsets to help businesses become more aligned with today’s myriad technologies and platforms. 
Hence, these skillsets will be highly sought after by employers in this age.
Today’s employers will be seeking for graduates who are able to communicate fluently, effectively and have good emotional intelligence skills. 
Employers will be looking out for graduates who are professional, courteous, polite and conscientious in their work. 
One of the key considerations an employer will make during the hiring process is where you will fit into the current team and how well you will integrate. 
It is the job of new employees to convince employers that they are going to make the workplace happy and stress free, including that they are capable of working well with others.
To have good emotional intelligence skills is to be aware of, and demonstrate empathy for, others’ emotions and behaviors which is crucial, especially when people are feeling uneasy. 
And this is also where good communication skills are critical; as many of employees continue to work from home, clarity in emails and at virtual meetings is a must to strengthen trust and retain high productivity levels.
While machines and digital technologies are taking on roles in analytics and business operations, human beings remain a unique resource in their ability to think outside the box. 
Many years to come, the business landscape is going to need to evolve and adapt rapidly – for example, anyone aspiring to work in business will need to be able to tap into their creative mindset in order to steer a business through challenges and opportunities that it faces. 
Hence, expectations from employers will be graduates who not only go with the flow but are capable of thinking outside the box, coming up with creative decisions and are very innovative in their thought processes.
Leadership skills are extremely important in these times. 
Managers are not the only ones to possess leadership skills – anyone can demonstrate good leadership. 
One of the primary drivers that an employer has when employing someone is how passionate they are about the company’s vision. Leadership, in this respect, doesn’t necessarily mean the general manager or the department head. Instead, employers are looking for individuals that will create a sense of community within the team, led by example, and work towards the common company goal. 
Being self-aware and holding yourself accountable is particularly important during these challenging times.
As important as these skills are, they will not count for much in the absence of jobs and in this highly depressed global business environment, jobs can only be created in an environment which engenders peace and security.
The nexus between security and development is well settled and as Busumuru Kofi Annan brilliantly put it “development and security are inextricably linked.” 
Another global icon, Albert Einstein also observed that “peace is not merely the absence of war but the presence of justice, of law & order – in short, of government.” 
Ladies and gentlemen in this regard, African countries have had a chequered history. 
In these uncertain times countries, which will attract job creating investments are those which create the necessary condign conditions.
Three young brothers who are students of Hope of Glory Montessori School, Mamprobi in Accra were the talk of town when the first ever Grappling Ghana Open Championship came off last Saturday at the Alko International School. 
It was for good reason because the trio won medals in their respective competitions to underline their rising dominance in the combat sport.
12-year-old, Zoe Amoonu Bernie-Johnson, Aaron Bentwum Bernie-Johnson, 10, and six-year-old Leon Afrim Bernie-Johnson, all sons of Evans Bernie-Johnson, Executive Director of the Professional Combat Sports Association of Ghana (PROCSAG), have made their mark in the still burgeoning sport and Saturday at the maiden Ghana Open was no exception.
Zoe Amoonu, the eldest of the trio won in the boys Under-13 division after he saw off competition from an equally strong Gregory Edem Kojo to emerge the champion.
The JHS 1 pupil grabbed the gold medal and with it a spot in Team Ghana for the upcoming camping session ahead of the world championships in Lithuania in September.
Ten-year-old Aaron, the second of the Bernie-Johnson brothers, tied for third place in the same boys Under-13 category and secured himself a bronze. 
It is just the tonic for more successes for the young grappler who has also starred in Karate-do where he has a green belt, just like his elder brother, Zoe.
“I was a little disappointed not to win my category but next time I will try to be the best because I’m very determined to take the sport to the next level. 
The more competitions we get to compete in, the better I think I can get,” said young Aaron who is a grade 6 pupil.
“It’s a bit difficult to combine grappling with school but most often it’s easy for me because I do the grappling and other sports at the weekend but even then I also take advantage of any little time I get to learn. 
So I think many other young people especially students can get in because it can only make you smarter and also strong.”
The youngest of the brothers, Leon, is just a grade 1 pupil but already boasts a couple of competition victories and became the first-ever Ghana Open Under-9 champion following victory over Nii Annang Afah Okang,  a pupil of Home Care School, Dansoman.
Young Leon had already earned plaudits by finishing 4th, only behind three grapplers from Lithuania in the International Grappling GI Techniques Demonstration virtual tournament against many European countries including Austria, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Norway, Serbia, Spain, Sweden and Ukraine back in May.
His older brothers were also winners in the same competition with Zoe earning the 4th position in boys under 13 and Aaron finishing slightly better in third in the boys under 11 division behind European grapplers.
“By God’s grace and my own hard work I was able to win first position in this competition. 
I’m really proud that my hard work paid off like this but it only means more time in the gym because I want to be the very best and beat anyone I get into a combat with, I want to remembered as one of the very best to ever compete in this sport,” Zoe Amoonu Bernie-Johnson said after his victory at the Ghana Open.
“It’s certainly not easy combining this with school but there are many advantages competing in this sport that I work hard to balance the two because it means you are highly educated and your grappling technique also ensures you know how to defend yourself even in real life situations,” young Zoe affirmed.
The West African Examinations Council (WAEC), has released the results of the 2021 Basic Certificate Examination (BECE) for private candidates who sat for the exams earlier this year.
The results are available on WAEC’s website.
“The Council has posted the results online and candidates may access their results at the Council’s website at www.waecgh.org,” a statement signed by Mrs. Agnes Teye-Cudjoe, Head of Public Affairs at WAEC added.
The examination is both for certification and selection into Senior High Schools and Technical Institutes in Ghana.
It consists of candidates who previously sat for BECE but could not make the required grade(s) and first-timer candidates.
The examination is conducted in the regional capitals of Ghana in February each year.
A total of 1,067 candidates made up of 584 males and 483 females sat for the 2021 examination, which was written at 11 centres throughout the country.
The counter-terrorism unit at the police headquarters in Accra, the Weija Divisional Police Command, and the Ga South Municipal Assembly, have arrested about ten suspected criminals posing as police, National Security, and BNI officials who were providing security to illegal sand winners at Agbozo in the Ga South Municipality.
According to the Assembly, the operations of the sand winners are illegal since they have not acquired the necessary permit to allow them to operate in the area.
Some farmers in the area have also complained about the activities of sand winners, which they say is destroying their farmlands.
Speaking to Citi News, the Municipal Chief Executive for Ga South, Joseph Nyani, indicated that several warnings to the sand winners to stop their operations have been disregarded.
Apart from providing security to the illegal sand winners, the MCE noted that the supposed police, National Security, and BNI officers were also intimidating farmers in the enclave.
“We had a tip-off that there were some persons operating illegally, so when we had the information, we quickly moved to the area and that is where we arrested these supposed officers who were fully armed providing protection for these sand winners. 
We initially told the sand winners to stop operating without a permit, but they never listened. 
We have seized their machines so that they will come forward to regularize their activities,” the MCE told Citi News.
The MCE explained that the activities of smallholder farmers in the enclave have been affected by the operations of the sand winners, adding that once the operations of the sand winners are regularised, they will be given specific areas where they can operate.
Some smallholder farmers who have been affected by the operations of the sand winners say they will struggle to survive since farming is their only source of livelihood.
Kofi Abrefa Afena has been appointed as a Communications Specialist for the Ministry of Energy.
Mr. Abrefa Afena, who is also a Corporate Communications and Brand Management Professional, takes over from Nana Damoah, who previously held that position in President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo’s first term.
Mr. Abrefa Afena by this appointment is to beef up the Ministry’s communications under Minister, Dr. Matthew Opoku Prempeh
Until this appointment, he worked as Communications and Media Relations Officer at the Petroleum Commission, where he contributed to enhancing the organisation’s brand visibility locally and internationally as far as its regulatory mandate and the promotion of Ghana’s hydrocarbon potential are concerned.
He has also written extensively to shape the upstream petroleum regulator’s image positively, and maintained cordial media and stakeholder relations for same.
Mr. Abrefa Afena comes to this new role with a clear understanding of the energy sector value chain and institutional nexus, and will support the management of the Ministry to effectively engage its stakeholders.
He is expected to co-ordinate the synergy of various persons, including sector agencies, to position the ministry.
The former student leader at the University of Ghana, Legon, has worked in the office of former President John Agyekum Kufuor as an aide and speechwriter, and also with the John Agyekum Kufuor (JAK) Foundation as Research Associate on Leadership, Governance & Development.
He has a firm appreciation of Ghana’s democratic and political landscape, shaping his views and communications philosophy.
He holds a Bachelor of Arts (BA) Degree in Politics with Sociology from the University of Ghana, and an MBA with specialty in Corporate Communications Strategy & Brand Management from the School of Economics & Management of Beihang University (BUAA), Beijing, China, as a CSC-Bilateral Programme Scholar.
Additionally, he holds certificates in Strategic Political Communications, Leadership, Organisational Strategy and Event Management.
Having attended a number of oil and gas conferences locally and internationally, he is also a Member of the Institute of Public Relations (IPR), Ghana
The World Bank announced today, June 30, 2021, that it is providing over $4 billion for the purchase and deployment of COVID-19 vaccines for 51 developing countries, half of which are in Africa.
More than half of the financing comes from the International Development Association (IDA), the Bank’s fund for the world’s poorest countries, and is on grant or highly concessional terms.
This financing is part of the Bank’s commitment to help low-and-middle-income countries acquire and distribute vaccines and strengthen their health systems.
The World Bank reiterated its call to governments, pharmaceutical companies, and organizations involved in vaccine procurement and delivery to help increase transparency and build greater public information regarding vaccine contracts, options and agreements; vaccine financing and delivery agreements; and doses delivered and future delivery plans. 
It asked those countries anticipating excess vaccine supplies in the coming months to release their surplus doses and options as soon as possible, in a transparent manner, to developing countries with adequate distribution plans in place.
Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, the World Bank Group has approved more than $150 billion to fight the health, economic, and social impacts of the pandemic. 
Since April 2020, the Bank has scaled up its financing by over 50 percent, helping more than 100 countries meet emergency health needs, strengthen pandemic preparedness, while also supporting countries as they protect the poor and jobs, and jump-starting a climate-friendly recovery.
“The World Bank is helping developing countries in every region of the world with vaccine purchase and rollout,” said Axel van Trotsenburg, World Bank Managing Director of Operations. 
“Significant challenges still remain regarding vaccine deployment and hesitancy. 
We are taking action on all fronts to tackle these challenges, working in solidarity with international and regional partners to expedite doses to as many people as possible and to enhance disease surveillance, preparedness, and response.”
Full details of World Bank vaccine operations are posted on our vaccine operations portal, with regular updates. 
The $4 billion is supporting COVID-19 vaccination efforts in Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Benin, Cabo Verde, Cambodia, Comoros, the Republic of Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ecuador, El Salvador, Eswatini, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Georgia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Indonesia, Jordan, Kenya, Kosovo, the Kyrgyz Republic, Lao PDR, Lebanon, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Moldova, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Rwanda, São Tomé e Príncipe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Sudan, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Tajikistan, Togo, Tunisia, Ukraine, Yemen, and Zambia.
The Bank’s vaccine finance package is designed to be flexible. 
It can be used by countries to acquire doses through COVAX, the Africa Vaccine Acquisition Task Team (AVATT) or other sources. 
It also finances vaccine deployment and health system strengthening, such as vaccine cold-chains, training health workers, data and information systems, and communications and outreach campaigns to key stakeholders which are crucial to ensure vaccination acceptance. 
The Bank has aligned its eligibility criteria for COVID-19 vaccines with the revised eligibility criteria of COVAX and other multilateral partners.
The World Bank is partnering with the African Union and the World Bank-supported Africa Center for Disease Control to support AVATT initiative with resources to allow countries to purchase and deploy vaccines for up to 400 million people across Africa. 
The Bank is also convening a task force with the IMF, WHO, WTO, and other partners to track, coordinate, and advance delivery of COVID-19 vaccines to developing countries.
The Bank continues to work with governments and partners (UNICEF, the Global Fund, WHO, and GAVI) to assess the readiness of over 140 developing countries to deploy vaccines. 
Countries have made good progress since the publication of the effort’s first report. 
Latest findings show that 95 percent of countries have developed national vaccination plans, 79 percent have safety measures in place, and 82 percent have prioritizations of populations to receive the vaccine. 
However, only 59 percent have developed plans to train the large number of vaccinators needed and less than half have a plan in place to generate public confidence, trust, and demand for COVID-19 vaccines.
Three soldiers in Gabon have been sentenced to 15 years in jail for an attempted coup in 2019 when President Ali Bongo was recovering from a stroke.
Lt Kelly Ondo – a commando leader and member of the Republican Guard – and his two co-defendants have been fined 31m CFA francs ($56,100; £40,700) each and expelled from the army.
All three were found guilty of endangering the internal security of the state, criminal conspiracy and theft.
Their lawyer Jean-Pierre Moumbembe says he will appeal the sentence.
Meanwhile, the gendarmes who joined them were all acquitted as requested by the prosecution.
Two other putschists were shot dead by the security forces at the time of the attempted takeover in January 2019.
Nana Yaw Amponsah is set to step down as the CEO of Ghanaian football giant Kumasi Asante Kotoko with immediate effect after he was slapped with a five-year ban by the Disciplinary Committee of the Ghana Football Association (GFA).
The decision by the Disciplinary Committee means that the former football agent will not be able to hold his position as the CEO of the Kumasi-based club.
Amponsah has three days to appeal the decision at the Appeals Committee of the GFA.
Nana Yaw Amponsah, who doubles as a Director of division One club Phar Rangers FC, is suffering the consequences of the decision of the club to pull out of the league without a just cause.
Phar Rangers announced their decision to pull out of the Division One League early this month as well as withdrawing from all GFA Competitions with immediate effect.
The Disciplinary Committee deliberated the matter before coming to the conclusion that all provisions of the GFA regulations must be enforced including banning their directors for five years.
“That the Shareholders and Directors of Phar Rangers FC on the records are hereby also banned from all football activities for a period of five (5) years effective from this 2020/2021 football season in accordance with Article 13(3) of the GFA Division One League Regulations,” the ruling from the Disciplinary Committee of the GFA read on Wednesday.
PassionAir has said its Accra to Kumasi flight on Saturday ended up at the Félix Houphouët Boigny International Airport in Côte d’Ivoire (Abidjan) because of bad weather.
According to the airline, bad weather made it impossible for the flight to land in Kumasi and could also not return to Accra.
“On 17 April 2021, PassionAir flight OP152 departed from Accra at 17:45 for Kumasi.
“Unfortunately, due to deteriorating weather conditions at the destination airport, the flight could not land.
“Unable to land in Kumasi or return to Accra, a decision was made to proceed to the planned alternate airport, Félix Houphouët Boigny International Airport in Côte d’Ivoire (Abidjan) where the weather permitted a safe landing,” a statement by the Airline said.
The statement further noted: “Passengers were provided with refreshments on the ground and the flight departed Abidjan at 11:20 pm when the weather had improved en-route to Accra.
“Hotel arrangements were made for passengers who required it, while others opted to spend the night in their own homes. All PassionAir flights operate with the highest safety standards, conforming with strict, laid down GCAA regulations.
“We sincerely apologize for any inconvenience caused. 
However, this diversion was necessary as the safety of our passengers, crew and equipment is paramount”.
The Ashanti Regional Police Command has arrested four suspected armed robbers for their involvement in various cases of robbery and car snatching in the Region.
The suspects are Mustapha Adams 37, Ibrahim Adamu 39, Aseidu Bonah alias ‘Lion’, and Mohammed Abubakar 33, all of which are currently in police custody assisting with investigations.
On Thursday 25th March 2021, one Emmanuel Owusu Antwi, 40 years now deceased, an engineer with Joshop Road Construction Limited was robbed of his Toyota Prado vehicle with registration number GN4131–20 and shot in the process by three armed men.
The victim sustained gunshot wounds in the head and was rushed to the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital for treatment but later died on admission.
Starr FM’s Ashanti regional correspondent Isaac Justice Bediako reports that Police Investigation so far has revealed that the above-named suspects perpetrated the said crime.
According to him, subsequent investigations have also established that these suspects are involved in many robbery cases reported in the Region. 
He said the attack that took place on 4th April 2021 where the victim was robbed of his Toyota RAV 4 at gunpoint in Kenyase Bampenase, a suburb of Kumasi were committed by the suspects.
“Another investigation has also established that the same suspects attacked and robbed the MCE of Asokre Mampong Alidu Seidu of his Toyota Hilux with registration GW2473 – 16 on 12th February 2021.”
The suspects again attacked and robbed another Victim on 15th April 2021 of his unregistered Range Rover at Buokrom F- line.
Also “on 25th April 2021, at about 9: 00 pm suspect Mustapha Adams, one of the named armed robbers together with two of his accomplices who are on the run again robbed a Honda Accord DV Trade Plate with registration number 4894A at Achiase near Kenyase. 
On the 28th of April, 2021 Mustapha Adams and Mohammed Abubakar attempted to rob a Toyota 4 Runner with DV Trade Plate at gunpoint at Kenyase Abrem but luck eluded them and they were arrested by the Police.”
Ashanti regional police PRO ASP Godwin Ahianyor told the media in another development that the police has confirmed the death of a 43-year-old man in a robbery incident which took place at Buokrom on Tuesday 1st June 2021 at about 3:00 pm.
According to ASP Ahianyor, four (4) armed men on two motorbikes attacked the Consult Agency Limited at Buokrom Estate junction and robbed them of an amount of about One Hundred and Thirty Thousand Ghana Cedis (GHS 138,000.00).
The Victim was rushed to the Manhyia Hospital for treatment but was pronounced dead on arrival.
Management of the Ho Teaching Hospital in collaboration with ICS Africa has launched a campaign dubbed “Save a Heart Save a Life” project to raise funds towards the full operationalization of the hospital’s Cardiothoracic Disease Center.
The campaign which was launched at a stakeholder engagement in Ho on Thursday is aimed at raising funds to be used to purchase standard cardiothoracic equipment and to set up different units needed for the disease center.
For the past 3 years, the cardiothoracic center at the hospital has operated as an Out Patient Department due to the unavailability of standard equipment needed to fully operationalize the facility to be able to undertake heart surgeries and other critical services related to heart diseases.
As a result, the regional hospital is forced to refer such cases to the Korle-Bu Teaching Hospital in Accra.
As at November 2020, the Ho Teaching Hospital had 1,023 patients come in for cardiovascular treatment. 
Between January to June this year, the hospital has already had 729 patients, all of whom were treated on OPD basis.
The fund raising which will be spearheaded by ICS Africa is intended is aimed at raising some $3.2 million Dollars.
Explaining the situation, Head of the Cardiothoracic Center, Dr. Frank Edwin said, “Unlike what we have in the Cardio center in Accra where you have the full spectrum of equipment to do diagnosis and go ahead to operate, here that is not available. 
So what we are able to do here is basically medical treatment. 
We need to equip the center to build an operating theatre and to equip an intensive unit that will enable us to carry out at least some of the operations that we are able to do in Korle-Bu that we can do here.”
He added that most of the patients referred from the Ho Teaching Hospital to Korle-Bu are reluctant and are unable to go to Accra to the services.
According to the Head of the Surgical Sub Budget Management Committee, Dr. Nelson Afram, the cardiothoracic center means a lot to the hospital and needs to be fully equipped.
He said, “As we equip the Cardio center, for us as a surgical Sub-BMC it is good for us because we can have some of our patients who need the cardiothoracic services here instead of referring them to Accra and at the same time, the patients can develop other conditions and as the surgeries are here, we can work together to manage those conditions.”
The Chief Executive Officer of the hospital, John Tampouri also stated further that the hospital may not be able to retain doctors posted to the Cardiothoracic Center if the facility fails to fully operate in the coming days.
When fully equipped, the Cardiothoracic Center at the hospital would be able to admit patients on both Out Patient and In Patient basis.
The facility is also expected to serve as a health tourist center when it fully begins operations.
It’s easy to look at the world around us and see only problems. Annually, the world generates 2 billion tonnes of municipal solid waste, with at least 33% of that ending up in the environment.
We have seen a significant rise in air pollution recording an estimated 7 million deaths yearly worldwide. 
100 million marine lives get lost due to plastic pollution in our oceans and the recent global pandemic hit has left 131 million people without jobs and classified as poor, meaning that they live on two U.S. dollars or less daily.
These dire warnings sound an alarm for immediate action to protect the most vulnerable.
The list of complex issues is overwhelming, and it is understandable that people disengage from issues that feel outside of their control. Not-so social entrepreneurs.
In Ghana, there exist a group of purpose-led businesses that see opportunities where others see problems and who have come up with innovative products and business models to solve some of the toughest social and environmental challenges.
Here we share four inspiring initiatives that we at Footprints Africa have had the privilege to work with, as part of our mission to prove business can be a force for good. 
These companies have reinvented the role of business in society and in so doing are addressing the waste management crisis, climate change, soil degradation, income inequality, and so on…
Women play a critical role in waste management supply chains but, despite taking on the most dangerous and unsanitary roles, they receive a much lower income working as waste pickers, aggregators, sorters, and machine handlers.
Enter Evolve Recycling, led by a female entrepreneur driven to empower informal workers, in particular the female waste pickers who supply them plastic for recycling. 
Evolve has piloted a new model, creating a network of 25 women waste picker groups averaging 5 members. They support these women to self-organize, providing training and access to transportation. 
In addition, they hope to further boost the women’s incomes by trialing new equipment that will add value to the plastic material they are processing.
Pyramid Recycling began as an informal outfit, recovering plastic waste. 
The founder was deeply frustrated that the plastic supposedly being recycled was turned into black plastic bags which quickly find their way back into the streets, choking up gutters. 
He wanted to design products that would keep plastic in use and avoid waste entirely and so developed his own machinery to recycle plastics into products such as curtain ropes and chair fittings (‘chair shoes’). 
These are sold across the region in Ghana, Ivory Coast, Togo, and Burkina Faso. 
More ambitiously, Pyramid has successfully tested an innovation they call “wood plastics” to produce an alternative for wood in construction. 
They hope this will reduce deforestation and both recover plastic waste and conserve Ghana’s forests. 
They recycle PET, LDPE, HDPE, PS, GPPS and PVC into plastic products.
Safisana was conceived to solve the overlapping challenges of poor handling of fecal and other organic waste, expensive and harmful chemical fertilizers, and unreliable energy. 
The company designs, constructs, and operates a waste-to-energy anaerobic digestion plant. 
They combine organic waste from food markets and local abattoirs with fecal matter from urban slums to produce biogas, soil conditioner, and irrigation water. 
They have their own nutrient-rich organic fertilizer brand, ‘Asaase Gyefo’ (‘Soil Saviour’), which they both sell and use to produce seedlings. 
A significant portion of revenue comes from selling electricity generated from captured methane to the National power grid.
Jekora Ventures is the first and only Ghanaian waste management company offering recycling services to clients through its solid waste source segregation program. 
They have worked to expand their segregation program to over 800 households without tax incentives to support the development of this critical infrastructure. 
Given Accra’s landfill is at capacity, it is critical to find a way of diverting waste and capturing the value of discarded materials. 
Jekora incentivize their clients to segregate waste efficiently in recyclable streams by giving discounts on their monthly bills. by giving discounts on their monthly bills.
Where some see waste, Kukun sees value. 
This food business is trialing an approach that will use food scraps and waste from their kitchens and the local community to test and run a community compost plant. 
They are collaborating with a local NGO, Hipsters by Nature, to provide waste segregation facilities and training for community members, in the hope of reducing their waste bills and generating shared value. 
This is a wonderful example of a business considering what resources or facilities it has that can support society for mutual benefit. 
Compost generated will be used to boost Kukun’s green gardens initiative, the community urban gardens, and sold to potential buyers.
These are only a few examples of the many revolutionary initiatives using their business models to transform the environment and the communities around them in Ghana. 
Whilst it adds complexity to take on such thorny challenges, these businesses show that it leads to mutual benefit with their community, stronger brand recognition, improved relationships across their supply chains, and more resilience in the face of uncertainty. 
Learning from these role models, the future, we hope, can only be one that is inclusive, regenerative, and self-sustaining.
Footprints Africa advances sustainable, scalable, and inclusive approaches for the development of African economies. 
We are a charity registered in the UK and Ghana and exist for public benefit. 
Do you feel inspired to contribute and help us take our work to the next level? 
Two Junior High School pupils of Rev. Cobbah Yalley Junior High School at Newsite a suburb in the Effia-Kwesimintsim of the Western Region are in the grips of the Western Regional Police Command for assaulting their headmistress.
Municipal Chief Executive for Effia-Kwesiminstim Municipal Assembly (EKMA), Kojo Acquah disclosed this during the assembly’s second ordinary meeting of the second session.
Speaking to the media after addressing members of the assembly, the MCE revealed that investigations suggest that that the pupils decided to assault the headmistress after she turned down a love proposal from one of the pupils.
He added that the said pupils are currently assisting the police in their investigation but was quick to add that the initial report suggests the two were under the influence of illicit drugs.
He wants parents and guardians to be more responsible as he expressed worry over the increasing rate of drug peddling and its usage among school-going children and the youth in the municipality.
The Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) Africa has called on the government to cease immersing the military in internal security operations which could be handled by the Police.
CHRI believes the deployment of the military for internal security operations is unnecessary and exacerbates infractions and violations against the fundamental human rights of the citizens.
A statement issued Wednesday, June 30 by the CHRI on the killing of two protestors with others sustaining gunshot wounds at Ejura in Ashanti Region urged the government to retrain Police on crowed control.
It also called for the resourcing of the National Commission on Civic Education (NCCE) to stamp out the growing intolerance among the populace.
“The CHRI Africa Office’s attention has been drawn to news reports of the unfortunate death of two (2) persons and severe injuries to others exercising their right to protest at Ejura in the Ashanti Region on June 29, 2021”.
“The Government must cease bringing the military into internal security issues which is the preserve of the police who are supposed to have the training and orientation to deal with such matters.”
It went on “government must resource the National Commission on Civic Education to intensify public education to stop the growing intolerance of divergent opinions in various parts of the country, and Officers of the Ghana Police Service must be re-trained in crowd control techniques in conformity with human rights standards” excerpts of the statement said.”
The youth of Ejura Sekyedumase were protesting the death of a social activist Ibrahim Mohammed alias ‘Kaaka’ who was assaulted and killed by assailants in his home.
The spontaneous protest on the streets occurred shortly after his burial.
Police went to the community to restore law and order but were pelted with stones by the angry youth hence retreated. 
Military re-enforcement arrived and indiscriminately started shooting at the protesters resulting in the shooting of Abdul Nasir Yusuf and Mutala Mohammed, and injuries of others.
According to the CHRI Africa office,” as much as we find the actions of the youth unacceptable, CHRI totally condemns the deadly force used by the soldiers with the tacit support of the police who abdicated their primary role of keeping the peace and following standard procedures for crowd control.”
“We find these events unsettling because the right to assembly, the right to protest, and freedom of expression are rights guaranteed under Chapter Five of Ghana’s 1992 Constitution. 
Article 21(1) (d) of Ghana’s 1992 Constitution states: ‘all persons shall have the right to freedom of assembly, including the freedom to take part in processions and demonstrations. 
Private citizens who are exercising their constitutionally-guaranteed rights should not be met with Military firing live bullets, ending in deaths and injuries.”
CHRI notes a statement issued by the Ashanti Regional Police Command promising to investigate the incident. 
Additionally, the President, His Excellency Nana Akufo-Addo has instructed the Minister for Interior to investigate the unfortunate disturbances.
While appreciating the efforts to conduct investigations into the matter, it however concerns at the back of precedence where after such investigations, the public does not see any meaningful outcome of such investigations.
Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI) Africa office is therefore demanding that “government should make the report of the investigations into the Ejura killings public to engender confidence in the work of the Police Security Officers found culpable must be sanctioned.”
The statement reminded the government of Ghana that as a democratic country that has signed unto international human rights protocols and standards such as the Universal Declaration on Human Rights (UDHR), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), the African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights (ACHPR) and so on, the state has a duty to uphold and protect the Human Rights of all persons and ensure that the security agencies operate according to law, due process and internationally-held standards.
Deputy Education Minister-designate and Member of Parliament for Assin South Rev. John Ntim Fordjour has assured teachers their welfare concerns are a priority to government.
According to him, plans are underway to launch a Teacher Welfare App to promptly address teachers’ welfare grievances.
The deputy minister-designate argues welfare of teachers is a major concern to government and assured all outstanding issues relative to teacher upgrading, recent promotion challenges, allowances and other concerns would be tackled with urgency required.
As a measure to holistically deal with concerns of teachers, Rev. Fordjour has disclosed a deployment of case managers to every region for timeous resolution of the concerns of teachers as part of efforts to improve their conditions of living.
The app, an initiative of the Minister for Education Dr. Yaw Osei Adutwum, is expected to help mitigate to a large extent, the many challenges relating to the welfare and management of teachers.
Speaking to the media at the 90th-anniversary celebration of the Ghana National Association of Teachers (GNAT) in Accra where he represented the sector minister, John Ntim Fordjour charged the teacher unions to have confidence in the ability of government to find solutions to the current challenges in the sector.
The occasion which was also used as an investment forum was on the theme: “Beyond Teachers’ Fund; Making the Teacher Economically Sound.”
Addressing the leadership and members of GNAT, he intimated that teachers across the country have contributed immensely to the socio-economic development of the nation. 
He reiterated government’s commitment to timeously address teacher welfare concerns.
He expressed delight at the judicious and productive initiatives undertaken by GNAT in their bid to improve the lots of its members. 
He particularly commended the business exploits of GNAT including the acquisition of majority shares in Unique Insurance and the Sweden Ghana Medical Centre. 
He also commended the GNAT for its investments in real estate and the rolling out of a housing scheme for members.
Rev. Ntim Fordjour assured teachers that the Ministry of Education will in due course make available 280,000 laptops to teachers on cost-sharing basis to equip them deliver more effectively.
He called on all teachers across the length and breath of the country to join hands with the Ministry of Education to build a world-class education system.
The Upper West Regional Police Command has begun investigations into an attack on its regional headquarters by some students of the Islamic Girls’ Senior High School.
The students stormed the Police station after some teachers of the Islamic Girl’s Senior High School reportedly assaulted one Goma, who allegedly attempted to rape some students in the school.
The angry students besieged the premises to demand the release of two of their teachers being held on the charges of assault.
The Upper West Regional Police PRO Chief Inspector Gideon Boateng said, “What happened was that the school teachers levelled a case against one Goma aged 30 plus that he has been hovering around their premises and then attempting to rape some of the students of the Islamic Senior High School”.
According to him, “the alleged suspect had his legs tired with a robe and he was arrested and brought to the domestic violence and victim support unit where he was asked to point out those who assaulted him. He was able to identify two of them. 
Upon being instructed by the doctor to go for a medical report, he seized that opportunity and filed a case of assault by some teachers.
“In the evening, the students, I don’t know who engineered them, stormed the police regional charge office and threw stones. 
If you happen to be here and see the stones that they threw against the police or on the police at the headquarters, you will boil.
“We are saying that the two cases are under investigation. 
Had it not been because of the police intervention and the policemen who were about to go for night duty, the children might have done something different,” he added.
The students also reportedly damaged properties at the premises of the Police station.
Stakeholders in Education in the Eastern region are alarmed at the high rate of teenage pregnancy among students in both Basic and Senior High Schools.
According to some heads of Senior High Schools in the region, some female students resumed school pregnant and wearing engagement rings.
“Some female students returned to school pregnant and wearing engagement rings. 
They got impregnated and were forced into marriage. 
But the policy says you cannot sack them from the school so I allowed them to stay in school. 
I only asked them to remove the rings. In all this it will get to a stage they will drop out of school when the belly protrudes,” the Headmistress of Kwahu Nkwatia Presbyterian Senior High School, Mrs Cythia Anim said in a meeting in Koforidua by Girls Education Network formed by Plan International Ghana.
The meeting was part of the commemoration of the Day of the African Child marked June 16 every year.
The Headmistress who is a former Eastern Regional Officer of Girls Education at the Ghana Education Service added “although there is a policy by GES that the girls should be in school even when they are pregnant. 
We the heads of Senior high schools are in agreement with that government policy but we realized that the stakeholders have to go back to the drawing board and the government as a whole to review it…because the students are abusing it and doing their own things.”
She joined calls by other stakeholders advocating for amendment of aspects of the laws of Ghana that allows a person to consent to sexual activity at the age of 16 but could only marry when the person reaches 18 years.
This arrangement, they say exposes young girls to danger and create a window for people to take advantage of them resulting in the current alarming rate of teenage pregnancy among basic and Senior high school students in the country.
A total of 109,888 adolescent girls were impregnated in 2020 in Ghana. Out of the number 2,865 were between 10 and 14 years while those with ages between 15 and 19 years were 107,023.
The Eastern Region recorded the second-highest numbers in teenage pregnancy.
The Eastern Regional Girls Education Officer at the Ghana Education Service Patricia Birago said reports from the various Senior High Schools on teenage pregnancy among students are not pleasant adding her voice for the country to amend the sexual consent age of 16.
“Government is saying that a person can go to bed with whoever he chooses at age 16 so if a girl doesn’t start KG early by 16 she is in school and legally free to have sex and at age 18 can even go ahead and marry. 
So we have realized that our girls are getting pregnant and they even go and marry and come back to school with their rings on which is of very bad taste because we know at the basic level a girl should not be pregnant and marry if for anything at all it should be tertiary but with this clause where lie the power of school authorities to question girls who come to school with their wedding and engagement rings ”
The New Juaben North Director of the National Commission for Civic Education, NCCE, Ebenezer Acheampong concurred with the need to review sexual consent age in the face of the worrying trend of teenage pregnancy and marriages.
Meanwhile, Plan International Ghana has commissioned a data collection project and scientific diagnosis of the teenage pregnancy menace in various schools in seven districts; Okere, Akuapem North, Upper Manya Krobo, Atiwa East and West, New Juaben North and South which have a high rate of teenage pregnancy in Eastern region.
The Eastern Regional Unit Manager of Plan International Ghana, Kofi Adade Debrah, said the project is to critically analyze the situation on the ground for a remedy to improve gains made in gender parity at Basic and Senior High school level to tertiary and push forward highest decision making bodies in government.
The Teacher Trainees Association of Ghana (TTAG) has expressed the utmost gratitude of teacher trainees to President Akufo-Addo and his government for restoring teacher trainee allowance.
Following the cancellation of teacher trainee allowance by the erstwhile NDC government, its restoration was a major campaign promise by then candidate Akufo-Addo, and he duly fulfilled the promise to restore the allowance, alongside that of nursing trainees, when he assumed office in 2017.
At a visit to the Jubilee House on Thursday June 10  2021 to pay a courtesy call on the Vice President, Dr. Mahamudu Bawumia, the teacher trainees commended the Akufo-Addo government for the  restoration of the allowance.
The teacher trainees said, the restoration of the trainee allowance has cushioned many students in teacher training colleges, and described the intervention by the government as “an unforgettable legacy.”
Addressing them, Dr Bawumia assured the teacher trainees of government’s continuous support and investment in education at all levels, to ensure easy access to Ghanaians.
The group presented a framed portrait of the Vice President to him with an inscription of their unforgettable appreciation of government’s restoration of teacher trainee allowance.
The Africa Education Watch has asked Education Minister Yaw Adutwum to stop the use of teachers for the upcoming census.
According to the outfit, using teachers will adversely affect academic work.
The education think-tank said the use of the teachers for the census will result in the loss of some twenty-one days of teachers’ time on tasks, apart from their absence in the classroom for the census training.
It has also argued that the move questions the implementation of the two hundred and sixteen million dollar Ghana Accountability for Learning Outcomes Project to strengthen supervision in schools.
The GES in May urged teachers to actively take part in the forthcoming 2021 Population and Housing Census.
A statement signed by the Deputy Director-General Dr Kwabena Bempah Tandoh advised Directors of Education across the country to allow teachers to partake in the exercise. 
That “teachers can go to school and sign, give assignments and leave after some hours to undertake such an important programme”.
But speaking on Starr Today, Executive Director of the Africa Education Watch Kofi Asare said, “Covid has eaten away a chance of our academic calendar. 
When you are in such a situation, the least you do is to compromise on time. 
Why am I saying this? 
Using some teachers for the census will require at least twenty-one days of sacrifice in the field and I don’t think Ghana is going to sacrifice twenty-one days off the classroom for some teachers”.
He added that private school teachers are preparing their students for BECE and public school teachers are busily undergoing training to participate in the population census so one can easily cipher the priorities of the public sector and the private sector.
Meanwhile, the Africa Education Watch is engaging Dr. Yaw Adu-Twum over the matter.
Striking Senior Staff Association of the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology (KNUST) has today chased out some senior members of the university for defying the strike directive.
The association is on strike over non-payment of their tear-two allowances owed them by the government.
Meanwhile, the government paid the principal amount of the allowances in contention a few days after the strike was announced.
However, the striking staff insist until government pays their interest on the principal money they will not call off the strike.
Starr News Ashanti regional correspondent Isaac Justice Bediako reports that initially, the essential services providers were exempted from the strike but two weeks into their strike the university communicated to them, since they are senior, staff to also join.
In other to ensure full compliance with the strike directive, a task force was on Monday morning deployed to the KNUST hospital to check if their colleagues were complying.
Some of the Senior staff who were spotted on duty were asked to pack out in a polite manner without any resistance.
Currently, academic exercise at KNUST basic school and JHS has come to a halt as a result of the strike.
The once active basic school has been shut down to teaching and learning leaving only the security personnel at post to man the campus.
Boarding students of Oti Boateng Senior High School in Koforidua, the Eastern Regional Capital are still struggling to get a convenient place to dine after their old wooden structure dining hall was demolished years ago for construction of a multipurpose dining hall project.
The project has sadly been abandoned at the foundation stage by Nesstra Ghana Limited, the construction firm for nonpayment compelling over 600 boarding Students to dine under trees in turns.
Dinning is disrupted whenever it rains. The onset of the rainy season forecasts a worsened disruptive and miserable dining experience for boarding students in the school.
Starr News Eastern Regional Correspondent Kojo Ansah observed during a disguised visit to the school Friday, June 4, 2021, at about 5:00 pm that, students had no dining chairs, therefore, stand to eat.
The risk of birds on the trees flying over their heads and pooing into meals amidst shrieking sounds is discomforting to many of the students hence take away meals served to their dormitories and classrooms as well as the corridors to eat.
The situation is breeding bedbugs, cockroaches and other insects in the dormitories.
Meals are prepared in a makeshift kitchen constructed on the football field of the school after they were displaced by the construction of the dining hall. 
Oti Boateng SHS formerly Koforidua Senior High School (KOSSEC), was established 29 years ago.
The school has been upgraded to a grade “A” status due to its academic feat. 
However, the school is faced with infrastructural challenges owing to an exponential increase in students’ population due to the implementation of the Free Senior High school policy.
Completion of a storey classroom project by a different contractor has however partly ameliorated the congestion in classrooms.
The Old Students Association of the School is unhappy about the situation in the school calling on the government to ensure that the contractor returns to the site to complete the project stating that it should be an emergency due to the pending raining season.
Michael Akrofi who spoke on behalf of the old Students also expressed disappointment in Omanhene of New Juaben Traditional Council for not lobbying and adding his voice to the plight of the school he renamed after himself.
“I wish you were here in the morning to see what was going on here. 
In fact, it was very terrible to see students dining in the rains. 
They carried their breakfast to the dormitory. some also dined in the corridor and classrooms which is not the best. 
They dine under the mercy of the weather. 
It is raining too. The birds here even sometimes drop faeces into the meals of the students which is not the best. 
So, we are pleading to the government to come to our aid and assist us”
The Governing Council of Holy Child College College of Education has rendered an unqualified apology to its Principal Victoria Ghanney who was hit by “unjustified and frivolous allegations by the Academic Staff of the college”.
A statement issued by the Council indicated that the academic staff had ‘discontinued’ an application to the court to injunct Mrs. Ghanney from holding herself as the Principal of the college.
This, per the release, has been upheld and the necessary remediation has been occasioned.
The allegations as leveled by the academic staff (during a press conference on March 11, 2021]), sought to challenge the eligibility of Mrs. Victoria Ghanney’s appointment as the new Principal for the school, where “some other candidates of better qualification got rejected by the council.”
A series of allegations much of which expressed doubt about her educational qualification were raised by the Academic Staff to questioning why two other candidates; 
Mr. Amuah Prah, and Dr. Hull Adams, all of whom had served the institution for years.
But the Governing Council indicated that the Academic Staff were ill-informed about the criteria for the selection of the best candidate for the position of Principal for the institution.
Again, on grounds of allegations of Mrs. Ghanney’s educational qualification which the Academic Staff averred was a misfit for the position had been responded to, by the council. 
It appeared the embattled Principal (appointee) had an M.Sc. from Herriot-Watt University as opposed to allegations of a ‘1-year’ online degree programme, and regarded as a senior lecturer by merit [through excellent academic and quality academic research publications].
The Council expressed with some embarrassment how the Academic Staff had stained the reputation of a rather accomplished academician who was determined to make a difference in the institution.
Following the lessons from this unfortunate incident, the council reckons that any consideration to maintain or uphold Mrs. Victoria Ghanney’s appointment could be toxic to the academic community. 
Her appointment given that “the council is not getting the GTEC to support her appointment”, has decided to reverse its decision of appointing Mrs. Victoria Ghanney as the Principal for Holy Child College of Education.
Below is a full statement issued by the Acting Chairman of the Governing Council for Holy Child College of Education, Mr. Francis Kwabena Boachie.
The Minister for Education, Dr Yaw Osei Adutwum, has cautioned John Mahama’s running-mate in the 2020 elections, Professor Naana Jane Opoku-Agyemang, to be mindful of her comments on Free SHS and its implementation.
“We don’t have to say things that we cannot substantiate…When you speak, the world listens and I plead with the hon minister [Naana Jane] that she should measure her words carefully when talking about WASSCE and WAEC, an international organization…” Dr Adutwum cautioned.
Dr Adutwum’s comments come after Prof Opoku-Agyemang in an interview with Woezor TV questioned why Ghanaians are enthused over the performance of SHS students in the 2020 WASSCE exams on the back of the widespread reports of leakages and cheating.
“We have also heard and seen students who wrote an exam, came out and it was like, you know we had an earthquake in this country, it wasn’t like one school or two schools… this same group’s performance is supposed to be outstanding that we shouldn’t be talking, it is the group I am referring to,” she said.
She added, “And they went and wrote the exams we heard of the leakage of the exams, we heard of invigilators being compromised, we heard many things and we also saw the students come out and speak about, ‘no this is not what we were told will happen’, now these students have As and we are happy? It is up to us.”
Reacting to this on Good Evening Ghana, the Minister for Education said, the students ought to be commended for their sterling performance in the midst of the pandemic.
“Under her watch as the Minister of Education in 2015, 23.9% of the students obtained Al to C6 in Maths; under Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, in the midst of COVID-19, these students courageously sit for the exam and obtain a score of 66.05% and madam, the least you can do is commend the hardworking teachers, headmasters [and mistresses] of this nation who supported these students through thick or thin in the midst of COVID-19, they did the impossible.
“…They did so well and instead [of] commending them, you look at these young men and women and tell them that they cheated. 
WAEC has an algorithm to detect students who have cheated and catch them every year. 
Let me tell you what this hon minister [Naana Jane] has taken for granted is that when you speak in Ghana, you speak to the entire globe because of what she said, some students may not get scholarships to certain universities around the world because they are going to look at them and say you’ve cheated you don’t deserve to get the scholarship from us.”
The headmistress of Efutu M/A Basic school has prevented five final year pupils from writing Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE) because they are pregnant.
According to the students, the headmistress, Evelyn Efua Panyin, does not allow final year students who are pregnant to write their final exams.
One of the victims complained that “The headmistress made us aware that she will not allow any pregnant student to write final exams. But I faulted and should not be prevented to write my final exams. 
Last year she prevented a final year student from writing because she was pregnant, I don’t want to stay home I want to write the exams and finish up this year with my colleagues”.
Mother of one of the girls told Starr News it is unfair for the headmistress to jeopardize the future of her child because she is pregnant.
“it’s a mistake she has done and they can’t abort it knowing the criminality of that action. 
We went to the school and the headmistress says she will not allow her to write because that’s against her rules in the school. 
We are appealing to the GES and the authority to come through for us”.
The family believes that the headmistress is not going by the Ghana Education Service regulation which says pregnant students must be allowed to write the exams.
The students are appealing to the GES and leaders of Central region and the general to come to their aid.
The Minority in parliament has hinted it would drag education minister Dr Yaw Adutwum to parliament for questioning on the reported cases of corruption in the implementation of the Free SHS program.
It follows the invitation to more than fifty headteachers and non-teaching staff in the Ashanti region for their roles in the supply of foods for the government’s flagship program.
Although the minority has welcomed the probe, they believe a forensic audit would expose some powerful forces who are benefitting from the corruption in the Free SHS program.
Deputy ranking member on the education committee Dr Clement Apaak told Starr News “you can be sure that as we are preparing to resume on the 18th of this month, a lot of questions have been filed to the minister on education generally and the shortcomings to the implementation of the Free SHS in particular, that I can assure you.”
As to whether the invitation by the CID was in the right direction, he intimated “we can say better late than never. 
So, yes it’s a step in the right direction. 
But the point I’m making is that this is just the tip of the iceberg. 
There are bigger and much more shocking issues to be unveiled should a forensic audit be initiated into the implementation of the program vis a vis the resources to ensure we get value for money, and that is the point in making.
he went on “there can never be smoke without fire. 
Yes, they named some schools, bursars, and headmasters, but they are just at the lower level, there are those who are higher up and we need to find them, hold them accountable and let them refund the monies for better use by the nation as we look at fixing what is wrong with our nation. 
This is an area that we want to fix as well.”
“Meanwhile, executive director for the Africa Education Watch Kofi Asare said the development calls for enhanced supervision to ensure that allocations for the Freo SHS program are used for the intended purposes.”
Leading construction Firm Nickseth Construction Limited has come to the aid of female Students of the Bosome Senior High Technical School who had to take their bath in an unroofed makeshift structure with no tiled floors.
The company has constructed an ultramodern bathhouse and laundry complex at a cost of three hundred and fifty thousand cedis (GHc350, 000) by way of Corporate Social Responsibility.
Until this intervention, the rundown structure served 420 students who queued for five minute turns every morning to take their bath.
Apart from the discomfort, students had to grapple with infections contracted while bathing on the untiled floors.
Board Chair of the company Dr. Godfred Owusu Boateng indicated that his firm learnt about the plight of the students when it was awarded a GET Fund contract to construct two dormitories for the school.
“When we came here, we saw that they were taking their bath in that structure bordered off by roofing sheets and we were touched by their plight. Despite the tight constraints of COVID 19, our CEO who hails from here Nicholas Frimpong Boateng pushed us to mobilize funds from the company’s coffers to help these girls,” he pointed out.
The Senior House Mistress Patience Boatemaa Simms was elated issues of infections and snake bites suffered by students who used the bath house and nearby bushes to hang their clothes was going to be a thing of the past.
She commended, “This time they will not queue; they will feel more relaxed to bath without seniors giving them just five minutes and the issue of infections will not recur.”
The laundry and dry lines will save us a lot of trouble because just last weekend, a student was bitten by a snake when she went drying her washed clothes in the grass.”
The Ashanti Regional Minister Simon Osei Mensah who graced the commissioning commended management of Nickseth for partnering the state in delivering the best academic environment for students.
He advised, “We pray that those who have the capacity to support the various schools in their area of jurisdiction, can follow this example of Nickseth Construction, and do the little they can also do to help government eradicate the infrastructure deficit in our various schools.”
Students benefitting from the facility were relieved the new facility will have positive impact on their academics and life on campus.
A student Pricilla Naadu averred, “The old one was a mess because as ladies, we used to get more than four or five students reporting to the sickbay every day to complain of white but we can now bath in sanitary conditions,”
“The former bathhouse was in an awkward situation. 
We had to queue but the establishment of the new one will help us in our time management as students since we don’t have to spend time here waiting for our turn to bath,” Jeckibed Ayariga intimated.
The project was commissioned along with a twelve-seater toilet facility as well as a boys; and girls’ dormitory constructed by Nickseth Company with funding from the Ghana Education Trust Fund.
The Minister for Education, Dr. Yaw Adutwum, has said parents who wish to pay the fees for their wards despite the Free SHS program are free to do so.
According to him, the government would applaud any parent who does so.
When asked by Starr News’ Francis Abban if parents who are in the position to pay should be allowed to pay for their wards, the minister reacted: “if you want to pay go to any school and give your money to the headmaster, what is the problem.
“If you want to pay, go to Achimota, if your child goes there, give the money to the headmaster and say headmaster don’t receive money from the Ministry of education for my son, and we’ll applaud you for that”.
He also reassured parents of the highest standards of education for their ward amidst the Covid-19 pandemic.
“The kids being asked to go back home was a mistake by GES. 
The team has done well but there can be missteps and they apologized. 
I can tell parents that their children’s education is in good hands.”
The Vice-Chancellor of the Regional Maritime University (RMU), Professor Elvis Nyarko has urged women to apply and participate in the programmes offered at the university.
According to the Vice-Chancellor, both the August 2020 & January 2021 intake had only 120 women out of 1,041 postgraduate and undergraduate applicants from both member and non-member countries.
Out of that number, only 691 applicants accepted and registered to represent 66.38 per cent. 
83 postgraduates and 608 undergraduate students.
Speaking at the 18th & 6th Matriculation of the school on March 27, 2021, Prof Nyarko said, RMU has scholarship opportunities for women and also there is a flexible working arrangement for women in the Maritime industry, therefore women should conquer their fears and get involved to reap the benefits from the Maritime industry.
The Vice-Chancellor in a subsequent interview with Starrfm.com.gh, said, “the Maritime industry really needs a lot of women to come on board. 
And I want to use this opportunity to encourage all our young ladies in the Senior High Schools to be courageous and apply to come to this university, to acquire the necessary skills to be able to work in the ‘Blue’ industry.
We know in the past, it has been challenging for women to go to sea, due to their inability to occupy some positions like a seafarer or Ship Captain, but times are changing and now there are flexible working arrangements for women to be able to combine work and also live their social lives.
“So they should be encouraged to come on board to train themselves. 
Currently, we have scholarship even for women who do very well in Marine Engineering. Stakeholders and Government should encourage young women to enrol any time there are opportunities so they come here to enable us to get more women in the Blue industry.
“We have systems in place to make life, very convenient and enjoyable for them. 
And we also protect them. 
There is a lot of discipline here. 
And so everything is well monitored and therefore they should not be afraid. 
This is the safest place for any man or a woman to come and study.”
He added that several courses including; marine engineering, nautical science, electronics, Port and Shipping administration are available at the Regional Maritime University for women to earn the requisite skills to work in the underexplored blue economy.
He said despite the COVID-19 pandemic, demand for shipping services overtime would continue to rise. 
According to him, records showed that during the peak of the pandemic last year, when the land borders and airports were closed, all over the world, sea transport continued to operate very actively.
“This confirms the vital role the maritime industry continues to play in the development of nations and the certainty of job security for the youth, even in times of crisis such as the COVID-19 pandemic, which is still with us,” he added
He said recent reports indicate that the Tema Port, recorded one of its strongest performances last year (2020) in spite of the disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic which seriously affected other sectors of the Ghanaian economy.
Prof Nyarko said, “in short, COVID-19 or no COVID-19, the sea never dries.”
Black Stars coach Charles Kwabla Akonnor has praised former trainer James Kwesi Appiah for the team’s qualification to next year’s Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroun.
Ghana cruised to a convincing 3-1 win over São Tomé and Principe in their final group C game in the qualifiers at the Accra Sports stadium. 
Goals from Nicholas Opoku, Jordan Ayew and Baba Rahman were enough to hand them the needed points to finish top of Group C at the expense of Sudan, South Africa and Sao Tome and Principe.
Akunnor replaced Appiah after the expiration of his contract which was not renewed by the Ghana Football Association.
Addressing the media after the team’s victory over Sao Tome and Principe, Speaking to the media, coach Akonnor praised Appiah who started the qualifiers insisting his outstanding performance played a vital role in securing qualification at the end.
“I would like to, first of all, thank my former boss Kwasi Appiah who started the qualifiers, winning two games.”
“He’s the reason why we just needed to win one and draw to make it and I want to acknowledge him for everything,” he said.
Ghana has qualified for a record ninth straight Africa Cup of Nations tournament since they last missed out in 2004 in Tunisia.
Ras Mubarak has described utterances of the National Association of Graduate Teachers (NAGRAT) in the admission standoff between Achimota School and the two Rastafarian students as disgraceful.
According to the former Kumbungu lawmaker, the leadership of NAGRAT commenting on the matter out of ignorance.
“Someone in the capacity of the NAGRAT President shouldn’t be making such disgraceful comments. 
NAGRAT is speaking out of ignorance. What they [Achimota School] did smacks of colonial mentality. 
You can’t deny these two kids access to education because of their religion and Achimota school can be sued for all manner of things,” the former lawmaker said.
NAGRAT has defended the decision of Achimota school in refusing admission to the students until their hair is cut.
NAGRAT President Eric Angel Carbonu said the exemptions will lead to a chaotic school environment in the country and has asked the GES to redirect the management of Achimota School to ensure students abide by rules.
He said “the population of students in Achimota Senior High School is about 4,000 students with about 130 teachers. 
To be able to manage 4,000 students coming from different homes with different upbringing, different training and different behaviour needs to have universal rules and regulation that ought to be followed by all students in the school, We cannot begin, this day, to start making exemptions for individual students based on their belief, based on their culture, based on their tradition, and based on many other issues”.
“That will lead to a chaotic school environment. 
And a chaotic school environment becomes an indisciplined school environment that cannot produce the result that we expect. 
NAGRAT totally disagrees with the position of the management of the GES and we are calling on the GES to redirect the headmistress and the staff of the Achimota Senior High School to ensure that the rules and regulations of Achimota School and indeed any other senior high school is abided by every student.”
Mr Carbonu added “one does not understand why people want to turn our schools into deregulated institutions where people’s whims and caprices hold way. 
The school is not a fashion environment, the school is not an environment to exhibit one’s religious beliefs. 
The school is an environment for training and conformity is part of training.”
Students at the Ghana Institute of Journalism have threatened to unleash their wrath if the management of the school fails to reverse a decision asking students who defaulted in their payment of fees to defer their courses.
Authorities at the Ghana Institute of Journalism on Tuesday, March 23, 2021, ordered students who could not pay their school fees before the deadline to defer their programme.
The directive comes five days before the end of the first-semester examination which is scheduled to take place from March 29, 2021, to April 19, 2021.
The school in a press statement ordered the affected students to comply and act accordingly.
“Management of the Ghana Institute of Journalism, at its meeting held on Monday, March 22, 2021, decided that students who paid their fees after the registration deadline should defer their programme,” the notice read.
Irate students who spoke to Starrfm.com.gh stated described the move as insensitive and very despicable adding that the school should have rejected the move if they knew they were going to ask them to defer their courses.
“How can you as undergraduate students to defer their courses for late payment of fees in this era of Covid when parents are already struggling to survive. 
At least they should be a little bit human and feel the pain of parents in this era,” one of the students said.
The premier communication institution ahead of the 2020/2021 academic year, increased the fees to be paid by students by 5%.
Per the new fee schedule, regular students pursuing the Institute’s Bachelor in Communication Studies programme pay GH¢2,520.00 whilst those pursuing a Diploma in Communication Studies (Regular and Weekend) will have to pay GH¢2,310.00 as academic fees.
For level 300 Top-up fresh students (Weekend), their new academic fee is now GH¢3,100 whereas their colleagues in level 400 will have to pay GH¢2,730.00
The fee for the first-year Diploma in Communication Studies (evening) students is now GH¢2,660.00 whilst their colleagues in the weekend class will pay GH¢2,900.00.
St. Augustinus JHS from Axim in the Nzema East Municipal of the Western Region has won the 2021 annual Sixth edition of the Western Region Inter-District Independence Day Quiz Competition held at Wassa Akropong last Thursday.
The Champions beat their closest contenders VRA International School from the Shama District with 36.5 point as against 36 points, whiles Peace International School representing the Jomoro Municipality placing third with 35 points, with the defending champions Tarkwa UMaT basic school placing fourth with 33 points.
BOPP Basic School from the Mpohor District placed fifth with 28 points with Services Basic School from the Takoradi Metro placed sixth with 27 points and RIIS Presby School from the Wassa Amenfi East placed 7th with 22 points.
The Champions took away a trophy, gold medals, a multipurpose printer machine, a dell laptop, an educationaltablets for the three contestants, text books, plaques, certificates, school bags and t-shirts with the first runners taking away medals, laptop, certificates, tablets for the contestants, school bags, text books, T-Shirts, plaques, the second runners up Peace International School also receiving same package.
Speaking at the occasion, the Executive Vice President and Head of Goldfields West Africa, Mr. Alfred Baku, the Special Guest of Honour who’s speech was on his behalf by Mr. Alex Obu-Simpson, Acting Vice President and Head of HR and Corporate Affairs of Goldfields Weat Africa commended Nananom for their continuous support towards promoting education in the region for the past six years, hence their interest to support such course by the traditional leadership of the region and assured of Gold Fields continues support in future events.
He added that “the competition aligns with Gold Fields’ commitment to education why is the request to be the headline Sponsor of this programme recieved the full support of our Executive Committee members. 
This is our commitment as a business to support the Sustainable Development number 4 which focuses on ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all.
On her part, Hon. Mrs. Eunice Jacqueline Buah Asumah-Hinneh, the very special guest of Honour congratulated the participating schools and the planning committee for their focus towards promoting education.
She urged the students to focus on their education and become better and responsible citizens in society.
The Chairman for the Occasion Tetrete Akuamoah Sekyim II and Paramount Chief of Wassa Amenfi Traditional Area lauded the commitment of sponsors of the programme and called on them to put in place measures to sustain such an initiative by the traditional leadership of the region.
He also advised students to eschew from all manner of nefarious activities that will endanger their future chances.
The Managing Director of Perseus Mining Ghana Ltd, Dr. Stephen Kofi Ndede underscore how relevant education falls within the vision of his company, thus committed to the supporting of the sector in its catchment areas over the past years.
He assured of Perseus Mine’s commitment towards enhancing quality education in the region.
On his part, the Executive Chairman of the organising and planning committee Obrempong Hima Dekyi XIV and Omanhene of Upper Dixcove Traditional Area applauded sponsors such as Gold Fields Ghana Ltd for headlining the quiz programme on two consecutive times, Perseus Mining Ghana Ltd, Takoradi International Company Ltd (TICO-TAQA), BCM International Group as gold sponsors, Wayoe Engineering and Construction Ltd, Seedco Construction, Engineers and Planners, and Westfield as sponsors.
Others include BBS Construction, REF Engineering, Office of the Members of Parliament for Wassa Amenfi East, Tarkwa Nsuaem, Jomoro, Ellembelle, Evalue Ajomoro Gwira, Mpohor and Shama Constituencies for their immense contributions.
Obrempong Hima Dekyi highlighted that the quiz programme which an initiative of Nananom of the region has come to stay and urged all stakeholders to continue supporting Nananom’s course aimed at promoting education and unity among the respective Municipal and Districts of the region.
The Western Regional Director of Education who’s speech was read on his behalf by Mrs. Binney thanked Nananom for their continuous support towards education and promised of the directorate’s partnership.
Thirteen Municipal and Districts of the Western Region participated in the competition, namely, Wassa Amenfi East (Host), Wasa Amenfi Central and West, Prestea Huni Valley, Tarkwa Nsuaem, Mpohor, Ahanta West, Takoradi Metro, Shama, Wassa East, Nzema East, Ellembelle and Jomoro Municipal and Districts Assemblies.
A final year student of Kroma 2 JHS at Nungua, a suburb of Accra, has together with his gang attacked a teacher for punishing him over his failure to do his homework.
Information gathered by Starr News indicates that the student, run home after he was punished, gathered his gang in a Sprinter Bus, and stormed the school to attack the teacher leaving the teacher with a facial wound.
The teacher was rescued by his colleagues and rushed to the LEKMA Hospital where his wounds were stitched and later discharged.
After the attack, the mother of the student also besieged the school and rained insults on the teacher identified as Mr Moses Onyameasem who was already in hospital receiving treatment for his wounds.
The development has led to the closure of the school and some other schools in the area until further notice.
The Otumfuo Osei Tutu II Foundation in partnership with Ashanti professional club has donated hundreds of exercise books and bags to 8 selected Junior High Schools (JHS) in deprived remote communities of Atwima Nwabiagya South districts of the Ashanti region.
Each student in all schools where the exercise took place received a school bag and five exercise books each to support their education.
The affected school for the exercise include Nkwakom M/A JHS, Kyereyaase M/A JHS, Nkontomire, Asakraka, Amadum Adankwame, Ahwiaa, Ntabanu and Akuapem MA/ JHS.
The foundations newly appointed Executive Director, Nana Afia Kobi Prempeh used the opportunity to interact with the students shortly and stressed the need for the students to adhere to all the COVID-19 protocol measures government has adopted for their safety against the deadly Coronavirus disease.
Addressing the students, Nana Afia Kobi said, Otumfuo’s commitment towards promoting education in Ashanti Kingdom and Ghana since his ascension to the Asante Golden stool remains unchanged.
“You know since Otumfuo’s ascension to the Asanteman Golden Stool developing education to the global standard is one of his major priority but one of the issues in our education particular has to do with lack of basic logistics for the students. 
So… Otumfuo Osei Tutu II Foundation in partnership with Ashanti professionals club put these bags and books together to support the school children’’.
She stressed,” think about it some of the children don’t have books to write in to talk about textbooks and all things. 
So we decided to come here to check on them and to offer our support to them after the COVID-19 lockdown of schools’’.
Speaking on COVID-19 pandemic and its mode of infection, Nana Afia Kobi urged the school children to adhere to all the adopted protocols the Education Ministry has put in place for their personal safety against the virus by the regular wearing of a nose mask, hand washing and observing Physical social distancing.
“One very important massage Otumfuo said, I should leave to you is that he want you all alive to accomplish your dreams of becoming medical doctors, Lawyers, Teachers and managing directors of companies in future. 
However, the COVID-19 pandemic is still sweeping young and adults in an unfortunate manner. so…. 
He said, I should tell you all to wear noise mask and wash your hands under running water and overserve physical social distancing’’.
She, however, urged parents to play their part by ensuring their children are taken care of in their respective homes against the virus.
“We are all aware of measures the government has put in place against the virus in various schools. 
The onus lice on the parents to play their part at their respective homes and communities’’ stressed.
The school children who were singing songs of praise to the Asantehene over a surprise visit to their schools by his Foundation associated with distribution goodies commended him for the gesture.
We thank Otumfuo Osei Tutu II, for this surprise visit which we never expected. 
We thank him for the books and bags he has given us may the almighty God bless him and give him a long life.
Circuit supervisor for the Atwima Nwabiagya South Manhyia South circuit Edward Adjei Twum, who describes the donation to the remote schools as amazing equally commended Otumfuo Osei Tutu II Foundation for thinking about the children deprived communities in the district.
Nkwakom , Kyereyaase , Nkontomire, Asakraka, Amadum, Adankwame, Ahwiaa, Ntabanu and Akuapem are farming towns so the parent doesn’t have enough money to take care of their children including buying books for their education.
“so Otumfuo supplying books and bags to the children is an amazing thing the children have seen because they couldn’t imagine they will get something like this from Otumfuo. 
Otumfuo has done well because he has thought of schools in the remote areas and this is the people who need that support. 
So… all that I can say is that we thank Otumfuo we pray that the good Lord will protect and guide him so that all his good plans for education in this country will materialized’’.
Education Minister-designate Dr Yaw Osei Adutwum says he will still go to classrooms to teach even after he is confirmed for the job by Parliament.
According to the educationist, he will continue to play his role as the ‘Teacher- in-Chief’ in the country to inspire both teachers and students.
“I’m a ‘teacher-in-chief’ and when I become the Minister, you’ll see me with a marker teaching in the classroom,” the former deputy Education Minister told the Appointment Committee of Parliament during his vetting.
The minister also defended government’s decision to open schools despite the rise in COVID-19 cases.
“The schools will be a safer environment than the home if we’re ahead of the disease in terms of decision-making, therefore, the Ghana Education Service and Ghana Health Service have been collaborating to achieve that objective,” Dr Adutwum noted.
He pledged to provide the necessary support to brilliant but needy students from deprived communities to pursue courses of their dream in the universities.
Commenting on the Public University Bill, Dr Adutwum said he would continue with the stakeholders’ consultations started by his predecessor and ensure that the views of the stakeholders are respected while implementing government’s education policies.
The two female St. Louis Junior High School students who were reported missing have been found with their boyfriends.
They were found at Tafo in Kumasi by the Police after a search party was commissioned on Sunday following a report by their parents, Starr News’ Ashanti regional correspondent Isaac Bediako Justice has reported.
Their alleged boyfriends had absconded by the time the Police reached their hideout following a tipoff by a neighbour.
The students are currently with the Police undergoing interrogation.
The teenage girls claimed they were kidnapped on their way home after school on Friday.
The girls claimed after close of school Friday they picked a taxi to transport them to Breman UGC where they live with their parents.
Upon reaching Suame in the evening, the taxi driver diverted from the main route and took the girls to Suame Magazine, an area they are not familiar with.
One of the girls who managed to call her brother with the phone of one of the suspects who had dropped it in the room where they were keeping their victims said: “We are 10 people in the room. 
The boys and their bodyguards are sleeping with us. 
One of the girls who earlier called her father with her own phone has been stabbed with a knife”.
She added, “at the moment I can’t direct you to where we are because I don’t know the area all I know is we are close to Nuroom hotel”.
Father of one of the victims who was with the Suame Police search team collapsed over the matter.
The Ashanti regional police command has been informed about the development for extra men to be deployed for the rescue of the girls and other victims.
A total of twenty-nine (29 ) persons made up of 26 students and 3 teachers have tested positive for covid-19 at Akosombo International School in the Asuogyaman District of the Eastern region.
This was after results of mass testing of students, teaching and non-teaching staff in school trickled in.
Starr News sources indicate that the infected students and teachers have been quarantined in a hotel at Akosombo for management of their cases.
The Eastern Regional Health Director, Dr Winfred Ofosu confirmed the situation but did not disclose the name of the school adding that the Regional Health Directorate was yet to be furnished with a detailed report from the Asuogyaman District Health Directorate.
Ghana’s COVID-19 death toll has now hit 433, according to the latest figures by the Ghana Health Service.
A total of 777 new COVID-19 cases have also been recorded, shooting up the active cases to 5,786.
497 persons have also recovered from the disease bringing the total number of recoveries to 62,340.
Currently, Ghana has 126 and 46 persons in severe and critical conditions respectively. 
A total of 788,526 tests have been conducted since the outbreak.
Members of the ruling NPP in Parliament have voted against Mahama Ayariga’s motion for the suspension and absorption of fees for students of public tertiary institutions and support for private ones.
The motion which was amended to suit inputs from the majority was moved by the Bawku Central MP and seconded by a minority spokesperson on education Peter Nortsu.
Information minister-designate and Ofoasi Ayirebi MP Kojo Oppong Nkrumah set in motion the opposition from the NPP MPs. 
He argued the move is an illegality since the House cannot compel the President to spend money from the consolidated fund.
Other NPP MPs including minister-designate for Education Dr Yaw Adutwum followed suit with their opposition
Their NDC counterparts, however, accused them of refusing to be part of a process aimed at alleviating the plight of suffering families.
Speaking to the media after proceedings, a visibly disappointed minority leader Haruna Iddrisu stated the move by the NPP MPs to depart from earlier agreed decision to support the motion has forever dealt a great blow to consensus building in the 8th Parliament.
“Building cooperation and consensus may prove difficult going forward because this was our first opportunity to have cooperation from those in the government.”
“It means they are not ready to cooperate, not ready to build consensus, and they probably may find it very difficult asking us to same in the foreseeable future,” Mr Iddrisu said.
On Sunday 24th January, 2021, International Day of Education was marked around the world. 
It was the third to be so observed since the United Nations Education Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) designated the day as such in 2018. 
It is a day on which we celebrate the work of our educators and policymakers, assess our progress and reflect on what we must do to improve outcomes for all.
The third International Day of Education comes at a very unique time. 
The Covid-19 global pandemic, which reared its head in the year 2020, has had profound effects on education. 
To secure the lives of children and their families, governments around the world had to take the drastic step of closing down schools. 
While this was a reasonable response, it quickly exposed the deep inequalities that exist between countries and social classes.
To mitigate the spread of the deadly virus, we had to reduce contact between human beings. 
This naturally affected teaching and learning, which had, until now, been mostly conducted in person. 
With classes shifting online, countries and families with the wherewithal have managed to claw back some of the losses. 
On the other hand, the less well-off have had no such respite. 
UNESCO estimates that while children in high-income countries lost six weeks of schooling, their counterparts in low and lower-middle income countries lost nearly four months on average.
The covid-19 global pandemic presents an opportunity to rethink our approach to and handling of education. 
That is why, I believe, the United Nations chose “Recover and Revitalize Education for the COVID-19 Generation” as the theme for this year’s celebration. 
We have to emerge from this crisis better equipped to handle similar disruptions and be able to give all our children equitable access to education that serves them and their communities well.
Even before Covid-19 struck, we faced the challenge of ensuring equity in educational opportunities. 
We know that family income levels have a very direct effect on the educational opportunities and outcomes of children. 
We know that children in urban areas have better access to educational infrastructure and materials. 
And we know that learners in the rural areas are less likely to receive the required amount of contact hours with teachers, where they are available, than their friends in the towns and cities. 
What the pandemic did therefore, was to highlight the challenges we were already contending with. 
As we contemplate a new future in its wake, we must resolve to address these challenges more conclusively.
While we aim for better, we must not forget that there is a lot we have to celebrate. 
We have, over the last decade, but especially in the last four years, done a good job in expanding access to quality education for our future leaders. 
Last year, 74.68 percent of all eligible children were in school. 
This compares very favourably with the 55.7 who were in 2011. 
It also compares well with the global average, which is 79.88, about 5 percentage points higher than ours. 
We are not there yet, but we have come a long way.
This progress has not been achieved without hard work. 
Credit must go to, among others, Dr Matthew Opoku Prempeh, Minister of Education in the first term of the Akufo-Addo administration and his able deputies, Dr Yaw Adutwum, Gifty Twum Ampofo and Barbara Asher-Ayisi (who was later reassigned to the Ministry of Works and Housing), as well as Professor Kwesi Yankah, Minister of State in charge of tertiary education. 
Together, this team led the sector through some of the most significant reforms in our history. 
The benefits of these reforms are now being felt, such as they were in the impressive results scored by the graduating class of 2020, the first to be enrolled under the government’s Free Senior High School Policy in 2017. 
Above all, we must commend His Excellency President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo for his relentless focus on education, his courage and his leadership. Since 2017, we have seen a steady rise in investment into the sector. 
From 2013 to 2017, between 12 and 15 percent of our annual expenditure was applied to education. 
In 2019, however, we spent GHc 12.5 billion on educating young Ghanaians. 
This represented a 39 percent increase on expenditure in the 2018 fiscal year.
The expansion in access has been complemented by a drastic overhaul of our curriculum and mode of assessment. 
For the first time, we are deliberately moving children away from learning by rote, or as we call it, chew, pour, pass and forget. 
Our children are now being engaged and nurtured in ways that will enhance their creativity, encourage problem solving and nurture leadership abilities. 
Under these new reforms, we will be able to measure and develop specific competencies of our young people, rather than the arbitrary grading system that often did not reflect or account for their individual progress up the academic ladder. 
I am happy and proud to have made a humble contribution to this process under the able leadership and guidance of Dr Matthew Opoku Prempeh, then Minister of Education.
Today, we can say with confidence that children in Ghanaian schools are acquiring the same critical skills that their colleagues in other parts of the world are doing. 
This means that they will be able to compete with anyone else in the world at the workplace, in the lab and in the boardroom. 
With this generation of learners, we can be assured that the future leaders will be ready to build this country when they inherit it.
These reforms and the benefits that come with them must however not be restricted to a small group. 
Every Ghanaian child must have the opportunity to experience and profit from it. 
We have to ensure that literacy and numeracy become skills that are universally possessed by anyone born in this country. 
If we are to “Recover and Revitalize Education for the COVID-19 Generation,” we have to adopt modern, innovative approaches that make our education system inclusive and sustainable. 
We have to ensure that all social classes in this country have equal access to the best education this country can offer. 
We must build a system that works for children with various levels of ability. 
And we must fortify our education system against possible disruptive events in the future.
We don’t know when another pandemic will strike, or whether the next disruption will be caused by one, but we have to learn to prepare for it. 
And we can only do that by building today, a system of education that can sustain any such disruption. 
That includes providing the funding, building the infrastructure and training the teachers who can keep the work of education going no matter what the external factors are. 
And if we want it done, it would be best if we started work on it today.
Local scholarship interview has started across all the 260 Metropolitan, Municipal and District Assemblies for some 55, 000 applicants who applied for tertiary scholarships.
The Students are graduates of the West Africa Secondary School Certificate Examinations (WASSCE) last year.
The exercise which is in fulfilment of the promise made by President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo last year, directing the Ghana Scholarships Secretariat to open its portal to give the free SHS graduates an opportunity to apply for a local scholarships for the payment of tuition or academic facility user fee for students wishing to enter any accredited local tertiary institution, whether public or private.
Speaking to this paper, the Scholarships boss who is monitoring the interview exercise across some of the districts, said his outfit is well poised to ensure that any student who passed through the application process successfully is given the chance to also take part in the interview process and subsequently be awarded the scholarship if he or she is successful.
With the digitization of the scholarships, we have ensured that everyone, no matter where they found themselves are able to apply for the scholarships. 
With the interviewing process too, we have digitised the system which allows the scores obtained by the students at the interview session to be sent to our office electronically on the spot,” Mr Agyemang said.
Mr Agyemang who visited the Afram Plains South and North Districts, in the Eastern region, as part of his tour of some of centres expressed satisfaction with the process. 
He said he was optimistic that most of the students will pass the interview in order to access tertiary education.
Addressing the issue of students who might have gone to their various schools and thus unable to take part in the interview process, Mr Agyemang said provision has been made for them to have their interviews done virtually .
“We anticipated these problems and have already made provision for such students. 
They will at all cost have their interviews. 
We are not leaving any child out. 
We want the vision of His Excellency the President to be realised. 
No child will be left behind,” he added.
Speaking to some of the students at the various interview centres, who were visibly happy to have been chosen to attend the interviews after a successful application, they said they will ensure that they make the President proud.
“We thank his Excellency the President for giving us this opportunity. 
My family and I are very grateful. 
I promise to make him proud. 
Thank you President Akufo-Addo,” Perfect, one of the students at Donkorkrom, in the Afram Plains North district said.
The strike by the members of the Teachers and Education Workers Union (TEWU) has entered a second day as a meeting convened by the government ended inconclusively.
The meeting was convened by the employment minister and the fair wages and salaries Commission as TEWU members abandoned their post to demand revised conditions of service.
Starr News has learned the TEWU members rejected proposals from the government aimed at suspending the strike.
TEWU leaders demanded more time to consult all members on the various campuses to take a decision on their strike while government representatives work on their grievances.
TEWU executive at UG Ken Botchway said the parties were called by the minister for labour and Employment.
“We’ve gotten to that stage that we need to consult our various constituents and take a decision from the discussion that has taken place.”
He went on “you know government will want to know what we want and what the situation is. Government’s position was for us to hold the strike action which is not possible until our demands are met. 
As I speak, We have tabled our concerns to the government, and they are also going to do consultation and hopefully, within 24 hours we should meet and see the way forward.”
“The team will reconvene by Friday. 
Definitely, in negotiation, all these things come to play and of course, they also understand our position and see the wisdom in it. 
Again, it’s now that they’ve heard it, this is their first time of hearing it, so quickly they are going to look at it within 24 hours and revert back to us.”
He ended “until that the strike is still in place. 
They don’t have the mandate to take a decision immediately, they also have to consult their leader. 
Inconclusive in principle.”
KNUST debunks claims that 17 persons lost their lives in the Sunday fire
The Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology has debunked claims swirling on social media that 17 persons including a porter have lost their lives in the Sunday dawn inferno.
The University has also dismissed claims that the republic hall was as well razed down.
The fire which was reported to have started around 1:30 am in a Mini market owned and operated by some private individuals behind the Republic Hall in KNUST was completely ravaged.
According to the University management, students who reside in the republic hall were immediately evacuated from their halls until the situation was brought under control by the institution’s fire tender.
A press statement sighted by Ultimate News and signed by the Deputy Registrar of the University Relations Dr. Daniel Norries Bekoe entreated the general public to disregard misinformation on social media that some 17 persons lost their lives including a porter.
He noted “We wish to entreat the general public to disregard the misinformation on social media that the republic hall was burnt and 17-persons including a porter have lost their lives.”
The University management also pointed out that no student nor their items were affected. 
“The campus is calm and all students are going about their routine activities peacefully,” he alluded.
Kindergarten and Junior High School pupils who have been home since the peak of COVID-19 in the country are to return to school on January 15, 2021, President Akufo-Addo has announced.
First-year Senior High School students will, however, start classes on March 10 while form 2 and 3 students are to resume on January 18.
The President also announced the ending of double track system for form 3 students across the country.
“So from 15 January, our children in kindergarten, primary and Junior High, in both private and public schools, will be back in school. 
All SHS 1 students will start classes from 10th March, with all students embarking on a single-track academic calendar,” the President said in his latest update on government’s measures in combating COVID-19 Sunday.
President Akufo-Addo on March 15, announced the closure of all schools in the country beginning March 16, along with a ban on public gatherings when Ghana confirmed her first two positive Covid-19 cases.
Second-year students in junior and senior high schools were however allowed back in school on October 5, 2020 to complete the 2019/20 academic year.
A Staff of Ghana Education Service in New Juaben South Municipal Education Directorate in the Eastern Regional Capital has been found dead at his office.
The deceased identified as Jerry Azaglo, was the assistant coordinator of Technical and Vocational Education training (TVET) was found dead while sitting on his chair.
Starr News Sources say, the wife of the deceased got alarmed noticing the husband had not returned home as at 8:00pm.
She stormed his workplace in the evening to enquire from the security man whether or not he had seen the husband.
Later after the woman left, the security man decided to search all the offices. 
He found the man’s office unlocked, curiously switched on the light only to see the man sitting on his chair motionless.
The security man quickly informed his superiors who reported the incident to the Police.
Police personnel from the Koforidua District Police command arrived at the scene and after taking inventories took the motionless body to the Hospital where he was medically pronounced dead.
The cause of death is being investigated, however, information gathered indicate the deceased had underlying medical condition.
The University Teachers Association of Ghana (UTAG) says it has lost trust in government over the handling of the Public Universities Bill.
According to UTAG, government has not been transparent with its engagement with all stakeholders in the attempt to the get bill passed.
Speaking to Francis Abban on the Morning Starr Thursday, National President of UTAG Professor Charles Marfo said lecturers no longer trust the assurances of the Education ministry over the controversial bill.
“We got a copy of the revised PUB at the meeting with the vice president yesterday. It was given to us by the Minister of Education. We were shocked that somebody thinks he can undermine UTAG and go to parliament and pass a law. 
Funny enough, the parliamentary people were asking that we come out with our position as soon as possible, 
What I can see so far and the calls I’m getting is that there seems to be a loss of trust,” he said.
He added: “If someone tells you I’ll bring you a document to peruse and you see the person in parliament trying to pass the bill, then there’ll be no trust. 
The parliament select committee was expecting that we brought our recommendation by Friday but we told them we’re not magicians. 
We need as much time as we can get. 
Are we in an emergency to pass the Public Universities Bill? 
What’s going on? 
Did anybody die? 
What’s going on at the universities? 
If there’s no emergency at the universities, why are we in a rush? 
Universities are like rainbow colours. 
Everyone has a colour so if you want to put us into one color, are you not destroying the beauty of the rainbow?”.
Government has pulled the brakes on the controversial Public Universities Bill, 2020.
Parliament has consequently suspended consideration of the bill which went through second reading on Tuesday. 
The move follows a meeting with the stakeholders by Vice President Dr. Mahamudu Bawumia and Chairman of the education committee Wednesday morning.
UTAG, GRASAG, Vice Chancellors and other members of the academia have kicked against the bill arguing it threatens academic freedom and autonomy of public universities.
Addressing the media in Parliament, Chairman for the committee on education, William Quaittoo disclosed copies of the revised bill has been made available to all agitating stakeholders for their inputs.
According to him, the bill remains suspended until all stakeholders agree with the content.
Dr. Lloyd Amoah, Director of the Centre for Asian Studies at the University of Ghana, on Wednesday called on government to withdraw the Bill saying it is inimical to the growth of public universities in the country.
The National Union of Ghana Students (NUGS) has lauded the NDC and its leader John Mahama for the latest update of the party’s tertiary education policy proposal.
The policy proposals dubbed ‘Kyemu Pe’ and ‘Fa Ninyinaa’ will see the full absorption of fees for all fresh tertiary students admitted from the 2020/21 academic year should the party win power on December 7.
A presser signed by the general secretary for the union Divine Edem Kwadzodeh and made available to starrfm.com.gh read “Indeed, the National Union of Ghana Students has since the advent of the COVID-19 pandemic variously advocated for the absorption of fees for tertiary students to help mitigate the economic impact the pandemic has had on working families and students.”
“It is therefore commendable on the part of the National Democratic Congress and its Flagbearer to heed to the calls by students of this country and announce such progressive policies aimed at ensuring universal access to tertiary education for all, even as the pandemic rages.”
The statement continued “the Union has also taken note of the proposal to make tertiary education free for all students living with disabilities, and wishes to commend the NDC for the announcement of same. 
The Union is particularly happy that a clear funding source, (i.e. the Annual Budget Funding Amount (ABFA) sourced from Ghana’s oil revenues), for these programs, has been announced by the Flagbearer of the NDC.”
It added “this, we believe provides enough clarity as to the source of funds for the implementation of these programs. 
The National Union of Ghana Students will hold the NDC and its Flagbearer accountable in the fulfillment of these policy propositions should they win the forthcoming elections; and will demand that they are implemented to the benefit and satisfaction of the good tertiary students of this country.”
The Minister of Education, Dr Mathew Opoku Prempeh, has said the Free SHS Graduates Association being inaugurated across the country will become one of the most formidable wings of the NPP in few years to come.
“We want the Free SHS Graduates Association to become one of the most formidable wings of NPP in few years to come to contribute to better governance of this country”.
Mr.Mathew Opoku Prempeh said this Thursday when he inaugurated the Eastern regional chapter of the association, which consists of beneficiaries of the government’s flagship education program.
The event was attended by hundreds of first batch beneficiaries of the policy who recently completed school.
They were bused from various Districts in the region to march on the streets of Koforidua hoisting various placards, some shading opposition leader John Mahama.
They then converged at the Cultural Center where the inauguration ceremony was held.
The Education Minister urged the beneficiaries to vote for President Akufo-Addo to help safeguard the policy to enable their younger brothers and sisters to continuously enjoy the policy.
He said government will from December 1, 2020, open a scholarship application portal for all to apply for scholarship packages to attend tertiary education.
He assured “automatic scholarship for students in rural areas who passed very well like master Thomas Amoani of Asuaba near Adeiso in Eastern region who obtained grade ‘A1’ in all eight subjects”.
He also revealed to the free SHS beneficiaries that government has in addition made it more flexible for students to access student loans by removing the guarantor system which was a major hindrance.
The Free Senior High School policy has taken centre stage of the  campaign few days to the election.
President Akufo-Addo on Wednesday said he is shocked by claims by former President John Mahama that he introduced the Free SHS policy in Ghana.
“I heard something yesterday that really shocked me. 
Do you remember my opponent [John Mahama] said I was deceiving Ghanaians when I said I will implement Free SHS if I win the election? 
He said I was looking for votes that is why I am making the promise of implementing Free SHS. 
He even said if he has 2 Billion cedis, he will not pay school fees with but will do some more profitable,” President Akufo-Addo said.
“Today he [John Mahama] says he brought Free SHS, how possible. 
It is unacceptable that a whole former President would seek to come back to office based on lies and disinformation. 
All his false claims are premised on the fact that his campaign is crushing on him” President Akufo-Addo further observed while he addressed traders and drivers at the Odokor Market in a whistle-stop as part of day two of his two-day campaign tour of the Greater Accra Region.
The Free SHS policy was a flagship campaign promised of the then Akufo-Addo campaign ahead of the 7th December 2016 general elections.
President Mahama led NDC which poo-pooed the Policy but later in 2015 implemented progressively free SHS.
However, President Akufo-Addo upon assumption of office in 2017 introduced wholesale Free Senior High School for all secondary school children public schools.
Management of Bright Senior High School in Akyem Kukurantumi of the Eastern region say the school has not been banned by the West Africa Examination Council (WAEC) contrary to reports in sections of the media
Media reports claim WAEC has de-recognised the school for three years following students’ attack on WAEC invigilators on August 6, 2020, during this year’s  WASSCE.
According to WAEC’s rules and regulations, Where a candidate insults or assaults a Supervisor/Invigilator in the lawful performance of his/her duties inside or outside the examination hall, or in any other way disturbs the conduct of the examination, the entire results of the candidate shall be withheld pending cancellation of the entire results by the appropriate Committee of Council. 
The candidate shall also be barred from taking any examination conducted by the Council for a period of not less than two years. 
In addition, he/she may be handed over to the police for prosecution
Again, a school shall be de-recognised for a stated period if mass cheating is established in more than one paper/subject or the appropriate Committee of Council is satisfied that the school cannot ensure the satisfactory conduct of the Council’s examination.
De-recognition implies that the school authority can no longer organise or manage the school as a school centre, although the Council or its agent may use the physical facilities of the school for the purpose of the examinations. 
The School may be allowed to present its students as School Candidates, but the conduct of the whole examination (Practical and theory) shall be the responsibility of Council.
The School concerned shall pay prescribed extra fees as extra for the supervision and invigilation of the examination before the examination begins.
However, according to Management of the School, it has not received any letter from the examination body to the effect that the School has been de-recognised therefore the publication cannot be accurate.
The Public Relations Officer of Bright Senior High School, Dr Isaac Asare said the school has rendered an unqualified apology to WAEC over the conduct of the students during the examination adding that internal disciplinary measures were also meted out the culprits.
“Bright SHS was notified about a publication online indicating that Bright SHS has been banned from writing WASSCE Exams for three years. 
We were so shocked because WAEC has not sent us any information or Communication regarding that decision. 
We decided to check the source and in the story one Asaase radio was mentioned that they had a breakfast show where they interviewed a WAEC PRO so we had to follow up and verify the authenticity of that story and we found from the Asaase radio editorial team that nothing of that sort exist. 
We want to tell the public that they should disregard the story, the story is not true. 
The school has not been communicated to regarding a decision of this kind,” he said.
He urged the public particularly parents to authenticate any information from the school to avert unnecessary anxiety.
The PRO also urged the media to be circumspect in their publications threatening that  the school will not hesitate to take legal action against any media house that publishes fake news about the school.
Meanwhile, management of the school says many of its students who sat for this year’s WASSCE examination recorded unprecedented performance in the provisional results released by the WAEC.
Educationists in the country are lamenting over what they call the over-generosity of government’s tax incentives given to foreign investors, noting that these monies lost could provide education for over 950,000 basic school pupils.
A study by ActionAid Ghana on financing education in Ghana, revealed that Ghana has lost $901.1 million as tax incentives through parliamentary tax waivers alone to corperations between 2018 and 2020 and about $657million through the GIPC investment in 2018.
The report titled ‘financing education in Ghana: how progressive taxation can increase the government’s spending on public basic schools and reverse education privatization’ was launched on Monday November 17 in Accra.
The report noted that government expenditure allocation to the education sector is increasingly looking bleak, shifting away from the GPE target of 20%.
“With an annual average of GHC 4.198 million funding gap, according to the GPE benchmark, the measure of underperformance and delivery in the education sector is adequately measured. 
It showed a fluctuating trend between 13 percent and 16 percent  (2016 – 2021), with its highest peak at 16 percent in 2019.”
It added that “20 percent of the $901 million potential revenues lost to tax incentives could provide extra 950, 527 places for pupils in schools or more school infrastructure with the potential of 10,376 classrooms for pupils in Ghana.
Policy Analyst with Tax Justice Coalition Bernard Akaba spoke to Starrfm.com.gh on the sidelines of the launch “we also know that our country has a need and if we look at the education sector, basic education particularly is under-funded and has been underfunded over years. 
So, we can make the case that it’s not everything that we have to give away.”
He went on “we can make the case that we need funds for our basic education, so we are not going to give blanket tax exemption incentives. 
There are some that we have to reserve for our schools. 
If we look at Getfund for instance, Getfund was a consensus kind of tax that we all agreed is important for our education sector, why should government always give Getfund away as a tax incentive.“
“Government can retain that for the education sector irrespective of what it is. 
While incentives may be good for some spect of our economy, its not all of them that are important. 
Government can negotiate better and lower the incentives that are given away because most of our children are out of the schools and we need to find a way to fund their education,” he added.
ActionAid recommended in the report that Government must first improve domestic resource mobilization by curbing tax leakages (tax incentives and illicit-flows) and then allocating 20% of such savings to education following equity criteria.
It further recommended that “because it is possible to save $180.2 million from the tax incentives only of we negotiated well.”
ActionAid Ghana concluded that “the government’s elaborate VAT exemptions are depriving the state of needed revenues, VAT exemptions should be more effectively targeted to lower-income households or to sectors that generate positive social or economic externalities
A survey was conducted in 150 households, 25 schools in Ga south municipality to amongst other things find out the cost associated with education both in public and private schools to inform the government’s education budget and assess the progress that has been made on education and her challenges.”
ActionAid is a non-governmental organization working with over 15 million people in about 45 countries towards a world free from poverty and justice. ActionAid works in partnership with more than 2,000 locally-based organizations around the world.
In Ghana, ActionAid has implemented the Tax Privatisation and the Right to Education project, which seeks to achieve better and fairer financing for free public education for all.
Under its over aching human rights-based development strategy, ActionAid Ghana works under four thematic education programs: Promoting rights in schools; financing education; the girls’ education and violence program and; empowerment through literacy program.
The West African Examinations Council (WAEC) has released provisional results of candidates who sat for the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) for school candidates in 2020 in Ghana.
A statement dated Friday, November 13, 2020, signed and issued by the Head of Public Affairs at WAEC, Mrs Agnes Teye-Cudjoe said the release of the results follows the completion of all post-examination processes.
The provisional results indicate that there were improvements in the performance of candidates at Grades A1 to C6 in English Language and Mathematics (Core) in 2020 as compared to 2019.
On the other hand, Integrated Science and Social Studies recorded a decline in the performance of candidates at Grades A1 to C6 in 2020 as compared to 2019 as follows:
WAEC explained in the press statement that the results of the candidates will be dispatched to their schools and candidates have therefore been advised to contact their heads of school for their results.
Meanwhile, WAEC has hosted the results online and candidates who so desire, may access their results at the Council’s website – www.waecgh.org.
“The Council hereby cautions all stakeholders, especially candidates, to be ware of fake results websites and the activities of fraudsters who promise to upgrade results for a fee.”
”Candidates are to note that all WAEC results are secured and can be authenticated. 
Institutions are therefore urged to always verify results presented to them to expose incidents of forgery,” it added.
The former Tempane SHS headmaster Mr. Dominic Amolale Ndego says head teachers of government Senior High Schools across the country are being intimidated just so they do not voice out the numerous challenges of the Free SHS.
Mr. Ndego was suspended in October 2018 as a result of the presence of then National Organiser Aspirant of the NDC Captain Joseph Akamba at the premises of Tempane SHS.
Speaking at a short ceremony in which he donated motor bikes to support the activities of the Upper East NDC Campaign team, the former Headmaster criticized the poor manner in which the policy was implemented and assured electorates of John Mahama and the NDC’ commitment to reform the policy and fully cancel the double track system.
He likened the double track system to a traffic light which gets parents and students confused as to when school vacates and reopens.
Mr. Amolale said the NPP government used his suspension to further intimidate and frighten Head teachers into keeping mute and accepting anything the government wanted to do.
He said “A lot of Buffer stock suppliers are supplying unwholesome and underweight food stuff to schools but the headmasters have no say because the suppliers are members of the ruling party and have powers that make them untouchable”
“The NPP government should have completed the 200 New Senior High schools NDC was building before rolling out a universal/progressively free SHS as was the plan of Mahama. 
That would have prevented the introduction of the double track system and the overcrowding that even led to some students sleeping outside”
He thanked the NDC party for the tremendous support and show of love he received when he was suspended from his position as headmaster.
Junior High School Students at Kwahyia, a farming community in the Suhum Municipality of the Eastern region say they have not seen computers before, despite it being part of the curriculum.
According to the students, the situation continues to have negative effect on their learning of Information Communication and Technology (ICT).
Many basic schools in the Eastern Region do not have access to Computers for hands-on practical training on ICT despite being part of the pedagogy.
“We don’t have computers in this school. 
We have not even seen some before so we only see them in books. 
It is affecting as because we don’t do practicals,” a Form-3 told Starr News.
“During examination, it is difficult for us to do the practicals because we don’t have computers to train. 
Even labelling the computer parts also become a problem,” another student said.
The Chiefs in the Community are worried by the situation and are therefore raising funds to construct a modern ICT centre.
The 30 -seater capacity ICT centre and e-library project being spearheaded by the Nkosuohene Nana Boakye Yiadom through his development foundation when completed will serve students in other surrounding villages .
At a sod-cutting ceremony, the Nkosuohene Nana Boakye Yiadom said he has been much concerned about the poor performance of students in the area in the ICT subjects owing to lack of computers for practicals hence the decision to construct ICT center in the community.
“ICT is now the order of the world. 
Everything is premised on ICT. 
But it is sad that in this village the children do not have access to Computers to properly learn the subject with hands-on training .so their performance is very bad. 
They don’t even know how to operate a computer reason I decided to do something about this because if we wait on government God knows how long it will take ”
The Municipal Chief Executive for Suhum Margaret Darko Dankwa pledged to donate 100 bags of cement to support the project.
According to her, the Assembly is planning to reconstruct the dilapidated School classroom block in the community which has become a death trap.
The Chief of Suhum Kwahyia, Baffour Asare Ayisi II, appealed for the rehabilitation of the poor road network to the community to help facilitate the transport of farm produce to market centres.
He said the area is known for the cultivation of varieties of crops including vegetables but due to the bad roads traders are reluctant to come to the community to buy from farmers.
Government has given itself a pat on the back for improving the status of teachers following the latest ranking of the country as the second out of thirty-five countries on the status of teachers.
The ranking was done by the Varkey Foundation, a global charitable foundation focused on improving the standards of education for underprivileged children, based on the data gathered by the global teachers status index.
Speaking at the nation-building update program, Education Minister Dr Mathew Opoku Prempeh said the Akufo-Addo-led government’s ‘teacher first’ policy has achieved the feat.
He said “just on the  22nd November, there was a world ranking study that came out and  Ghana was ranked second on the teacher survey. 
And the survey of thirty-five countries, thirty-five thousand participants, and the data was gathered by the global teacher status index group. 
And they found out that for countries that respected teachers and did more for teachers, they improved their economies and things and Ghana was rated second after China.”
He went on “so if in the last four years, the minister of education says that we don’t see teacher strikes as we used to see them, it’s because the unions themselves know what we are doing for teachers had never existed.”
“I did say that when you are dealing with teachers, the UNESCO has already set nine principles that you have to cover to know that you are thinking about the teachers holistically. Those principles include teacher recruitment and retention, teacher education, teacher deployment, teacher career pathways, teacher employment and conditions of service,  teacher reward and renumeration, teacher standards and teacher accountability, and school governance.”
Dr Opoku Prempeh highlighting government’s achievements noted: “so, those standards for the first time in the country were put in place under his excellency Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo so that no matter where you were trained and you went through licensing program, and you passed, you are a teacher.”
“In the last four years, financial clearances given and recruitments done by the end of this term will amount to 93,724 whereas, under president John Dramani Mahama, we had unemployed graduate teachers association,” he added.
Administrative work in some public universities has been disrupted as senior staff begin a nationwide strike.
They are demanding better conditions of service and are also opposing moves to migrate them onto the payroll of the Controller and Accountant General.
The senior staff in the universities have defied a caution from the National Labor Commission to lay down their tools
Chairman of the UCC branch of the association Charles Amos Odum told Starr News “the strike has started, we are going round to make sure no staff stays at office. 
Sometimes some of them will not hear the news and other things so we have to go round.
On the impact of the strike action he noted “the  impact is huge. 
I work at the library and all the senior staff are home. 
If you go to salary section there is no junior staff there, because now all the senior staff are going home.”
“And we are at the hospital making sure that our nurses leave, close to 70% of the staff at the hospital are senior staff.
Meanwhile, the NLC says it has initiated proceses to secure a court order to stop the strike.
Touching on that, Mr Odum stated “we have not received anything from Labor Commission. 
They only sit at their office and make noise. 
When we wrote them letter did they acknowledge that letter? 
We are prepared to engage them if they are ready. 
If they call us today we will go.”
“You call us then we all sit down then when we finish the negotiation then we call off the strike. 
But you can’t just make an announcement that the strike should be off. 
Because we met and we agreed on it. 
Even if you bring letter we have to agree on it before we call off the strike,” he added.
The Ghana Police Service has served notice that it will soon be conducting a mass burial for some 200 unidentified and unclaimed dead.
According to the Police Hospital, the bodies are made up of paupers, unknown former patients, abandoned dead bodies, and crime victims.
The police made this known in a press statement issued on Monday, July 5, 2021.
“The Ghana Police Service will embark on a mass burial for about two hundred (200) unidentified and unclaimed bodies as part of routine measures to decongest the hospital mortuary.”
“These unidentified and unclaimed dead bodies are made up mostly paupers, unknown former patients, abandoned dead bodies, unidentified accident, and crime victims.”
The Service is therefore urging the public to visit the Pathology Department of the Hospital to identify family members who they might not have seen for some time.
“The public is hereby being informed to contact the Pathology Department of Ghana PPolice Hospital for identification of the persons who might have not been seen for some time as part of part of the search. 
This is to avert a situation whereby such bodies are added to those earmarked for mass burial.”
It also encouraged the public to acquire the habit of having National Identification Cards on them or any other organisation card to aid in easy identification in case of any unfortunate circumstance.
Health officers at the Pantang Hospital in Accra are expected to later begin an indefinite strike later today to, Monday, June 28, 2021, to demand the removal of persons encroaching lands belonging to the hospital.
As part of their demands, the workers also want the government to construct a wall around the hospital.
In an interview with Citi News, the General Secretary of the Ghana Medical Association at the Pantang Hospital, Dr. Alex Owusu, indicated that the strike will start with a walk by the health officers.
“Our primary [demand] has been to wall the place and to clear all the squatters that have been moved into the hospital and to demolish all the strange buildings within the small wall that was started,” he reiterated.
Staff at the hospital have complained about robberies and other attacks they face at the hands of land guards.
According to the workers’ association of over 700 people at the facility, their safety has also been jeopardized, and that they are at risk due to the encroachment of their lands by private individuals who sometimes attack them in their line of duty.
Amid these concerns, the management of the Pantang Hospital has also appealed to the government to treat calls for the erection of a fence wall for the facility with urgency.
“I must say there is a threat to the staff and the patients. We think that this thing has dragged for far too long. 
I personally wish that the government treats it as an emergency and intervene to stop all these things,” said the Director of the Pantang Hospital, Dr. Frank Baning, to Citi News.
More than 200 residents of Atasemanso in the Kumasi Metropolis have been displaced after two days of heavy rainfall.
The rainfalls also resulted in six people being hospitalised after they were trapped under collapsing structures.
Kumasi, Ghana’s second-largest city, is witnessing one of its worst moments as the authorities and residents have been caught hands down, without any clue to finding a remedy to the latest flooding.
The National Disaster Management Organisation (NADMO) has confirmed three people dead, including a one-year-old boy, whose lifeless body was retrieved in the Sawaba stream on Thursday afternoon.
Nana Adjei Kusi Oboadum, the Assembly Member for Atasemanso, in an interview with the Ghana News Agency (GNA), said he had notified the disaster management organisation to support the affected residents.
The Unit Committee, he said, directed residents living in flood-prone areas to vacate their premises temporarily until the rains subsided.
Some experts have attributed perennial flooding to improper planning, accusing city authorities of negligence to duty and allowing construction of structures on waterways as well as rezoning eco-friendly buffer zones, including wetlands.
The Agona Nkwanta District Police Command on Tuesday night arrested 23-year-old Alex Tetteh for possessing a human head, believed to be that of a young boy.
The suspect was arrested by the people of Sankro, a village near Dixcove when he was searching for a potential buyer of the human part.
The Western Regional Police PRO, ASP Olivia Adiku, told Takoradi-based Skyypower FM that the suspect had attempted to sell the human head to a spiritualist around 5:15 pm on Tuesday, February 6.
According to her, the spiritualist became suspicious and raised an alarm, and with the help of other residents ,the suspect was arrested and handed over to the police.
When interrogated by the police, the suspect, Alex Tetteh, claimed to have decapitated a boy, believed to be twelve [12] years at Bogoso with two accomplices.
The suspect has since been transferred to the Regional Police Command at Sekondi pending further investigations, while the human head concealed in a black polythene bag has been conveyed to the Effia Nkwanta Regional Hospital morgue.
One Peter Tetteh, from Bogoso in the Prestea Huni Valley District of the Western Region, has identified the head as his 12-year-old son, Ebenezer Tetteh, a student of Grace International School at Bogoso.
Reports say a number of residents in Bogoso flooded the Bogoso Police station in fear and shock.
Sources from the school indicate that the deceased was seen in the school in the morning but after some students were sacked for the non-payment of school fees, he may have left.
However, according to the father of the beheaded boy, his son has paid his fees in full.
Four persons were arrested at the shrine during the swoop and the police also retrieved a human head in a black polythene bag which had been placed on one of the idols at the shrine.
The human head, which was in an advanced stage of decomposition, was found with a telephone number written on a piece of paper and tied around it.
The fetish priest and owner of the shrine is currently on the run and is alleged to have been engaged in several rituals, especially money doubling rituals, for his clients.
A former Minister of Health under the Mahama administration, Alex Segbefia, has stated that the University of Ghana had from the onset, been tasked to handle the management of the $217m Medical Centre.
According to Mr. Segbefia, the second phase of the project, which was expected to cost about 48 million dollars would be paid for by the University after an agreement was reached for the institution to guarantee the loan.
This, he said, meant that the University would be responsible for the payment of the loan for that phase of the project, and handle the running costs of the hospital after five years.
“The whole idea of this project was that there was a phase 2, which at the time, was going to cost us $48 million. 
That was a loan that had to be guaranteed by the University of Ghana. 
By so doing, it meant that when the loan is taken out, the University of Ghana would be responsible for making the payments on the $50 million, not the $217 million. 
That is why it was important that they had management control. 
The whole hospital’s running costs was going to be dealt with by government for only five years. 
After that the running costs plus the $50 million had to be paid for by the running of the hospital,” he said on Point Blank on Eyewitness News.
“It became imperative that Legon, that was meant to guarantee that loan was to be involved in the management of the hospital. 
From Day 1, it was crafted in the manner in which Legon would have some level of management control and Board of Director control of the hospital.”
The ongoing tussle between the University and the Ministry of Health over the management of the facility has been suggested as the reason it remains idle despite being commissioned in 2016 by the President John Dramani Mahama.
Despite the initial assurance that a concrete announcement on the resolution of the impasse would be made at the end of last week, the two parties have been unable to reach a compromise.
However, Alex Segbefia stated that, while the University of Ghana would run the facility, the Health Ministry would still be involved as was the case with the Christian Health Association of Ghana (CHAG) hospitals.
According to him, the only uncertainty over the management of the hospital’s facilities was in relation to the training suites which was expected to be resolved after discussions between the two stakeholders.
“I believe the [debate] over the management is a non-starter. 
There was always going to be Ministry of Health involvement because of the recruitment of staff, because of the people who have already been trained, we sent people to Israel for training. 
That was already on the cards. 
The Ministry of Health is not in charge of the CHAG hospitals, but we are involved in their staffing and the recruitment of staff, and we have a good liaison with them. 
This would have been no different. 
There was also a question mark as to whether we would leave the training suites with Legon on its own or to be co-managed with the Ministry of Health to ensure that we had training facilities right across the country, not just for those Legon wanted to put through training because we saw it as a national asset as well,” he said.
“The only question of complete management was with the training suites. Other than that, it was meant to be run by Legon. 
They would have full control at a certain point. 
Whether or not Legon took the decision to go with some advice as to whether they wanted to draw in expertise management to assist or not, was a matter that Legon was going to debate with the Ministry of Health. 
But the whole idea was that Legon was going to manage it.”
The UG Medical Centre, which had its first phase completed was ready to commence operations after being inaugurated by former President John Mahama in after completion in November 2016.
The facility has been idle since the commissioning of its first phase in January 2017, because authorities of the University are at odds with the Health Ministry on who should manage the facility.
Whereas the University believes processes leading to the construction of the facility gives it a direct oversight role of the Medical Centre, the current Ministry of Health under the Akufo-Addo government thinks otherwise.
A Deputy Minister of Health, Kingsley Aboagye Gyedu, had earlier said government currently needed about $6 million to make the facility operational, and an additional $50 million to complete the phase two of the project.
In 2012, the government signed a contract with Messrs. Engineering and Development Consultant (EDC) of Israel to build the first phase of the facility.
The University of Legon designated 400 acres of land for the entire project. 
About 800 personnel were said to be needed to get the facility fully operational.
There’s currently an ongoing meeting between government and the University management as well as other stakeholders on the way forward.
The Environmental Protection Agency [EPA], since the early part of 2017, has been aware of the operations of the Chinese toiletries and plastics manufacturing company, Shine Feel, whose supposed unsafe operations, have now forced the closure of the Osudoku Senior High Technical School.
Speaking to Citi News, an Executive Director in charge of Technical at the EPA, Ebenezer Sampong, said the Agency started receiving reports of the factory’s operations in 2017.
He now says his outfit is embarking on a fact-finding mission to the area, and will take the appropriate actions if it becomes necessary.
“It has been an issue on our table since the early part of 2017. 
There were some complaints relating to that. 
What we want to do actually is that, we want to do the visit as we have arranged, and then we can engage [the media] and have a thorough discussion.”
He noted that, the complaints at the time centered on noise pollution and the disposal of waste, which some have described as toxic.
“The pollution was basically coming from the way they were managing the solid waste from their operations and then I think there were also issues to do with noise from their generator.”
In the short term, Mr. Sampong said the EPA is seeking to identify the problems on the ground, and then issue out instructions to the company to rectify them within a particular time frame.
Failure to comply with whatever directives will lead to court action and sanctions, he added.
“Now if the company continues to breach, then you would go ahead to ask them to cease operations and if they don’t stop, then you have the additional measure of resorting to the court to enforce that directive.”
Speaking to Citi News earlier, the Assembly Member of the area, Jonathan Kwabla, had said the Assembly was awaiting a report from the EPA before taking any action on the factory
“We haven’t met to take a decision on whether the factory should be relocated or not. 
The last time I spoke with the District Chief Executive, he said we are expecting a report from the EPA” he stated.
In Citi News’ first reports on the precarious situation at Osudoku SHS, the Headmistress of the school, Sylvia Baaba Yankey, revealed that the students were affected by the smoke from the factories that when some students with health problems were taken to the hospital, doctors thought they were smokers.
“We experience the fumes on the compound every now and then, some of them who took ill were taken to the hospital. 
According to some of them, the doctor advised them to stop smoking, meanwhile they don’t smoke,” the Headmistress said.
According to her, the pollution from the company had worsened such that they had no option than to send the students home for health and safety reasons.
The head of the Agricultural Science Department of the school, Martin Fianuo, confirmed the respiratory problems among students and staff at the school because of pollution from the factory.
“The children have been having respiratory difficulties when they go to the hospital; the doctors accuse them of being smokers. 
Not only the students, the staff also. 
One assistant headmaster in charge of administration also suffered same.”
Due to this, the assistant Headmaster was transferred to another school because he could not work in such an environment because of the effect on his health.
The problems are reported to have also spread to farmers in Asuature and surrounding communities which risk losing their livelihoods because of the fumes and other waste materials released into the environment.
Martin Fianuo said tilapia production along the Volta Lake, rice production at Asutuare, as well as banana farmers, are likely to be affected.
“The waste material from their paper is dumped into a drain which leads into a catchment drain of the canal. 
So the canal system where the catchment drain is supposed to protect the main canal from being breached is also now under threat. 
And it has gone all the way into polluting the drainage system and this drainage system discharges wastewater into the Volta.”
“If this continues, it means the rice production at Asutsuare, other agriculture producing companies like tilapia production, banana farms are all under threat because of the discharge from the factory. 
The factory fumes, together with the toilet roll fumes are causing serious problems,” he added.
A 31-year-old Mobile Money operator has been shot dead by some unknown assailants at Kronom-Kyeraasi in the Afigya Kwabre District of the Ashanti Region on Saturday evening, the latest in a string of attacks on such businesses.
The Kodie District Police Command confirmed the incident to Citi News.
The deceased, Richmond Ofori, also called Papa Yaw, died instantly after the two gunmen who were on a motorbike shot him twice.
The deceased’s friend, 25-year-old Malik Ezekiel, who was also shot in the legs, is currently on admission at the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital.
The assailants were said to have bolted with an unspecified amount of money.
Assembly Member for Kyekyere-Kyeraase Electoral, Michael Adu Poku also narrated to Citi News that when he got to the hospital, he was told that “the mobile money operator was dead on arrival.”
He noted that “after the incident, everybody’s attention was on the victims so no one took note of the assailants who committed the crime.”
The deceased’s body has since been deposited at the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital awaiting an autopsy.
This incident adds to the growing number of robbery attacks at Mobile Money spots.
The Accra Regional Police Commander, DCOP George Alex Mensah has attributed the increasing spate of attacks on mobile money businesses across the country to the proliferation of operators.
He said it is impossible for the Police Service, with its limited numbers, to provide security cover for all such businesses.
Proffering remedies to the challenges, DCOP Mensah also emphasized the need for the creation of a regulation that will determine the location of mobile money operation points.
“The banking sector is such that there is a law that without the presence of an armed officer you cannot open a bank so at the banks, if by 8 o-clock, the police officer is not there, you cannot open,” he noted.
A pregnant woman and five others including two children, traveling in a canoe on the Volta Lake, lost their lives at Donkokrom in the Afram Plains District of the Eastern Region, when the canoe capsized.
The Saturday, February 17 incident occurred when the canoe from Dwarf Inland Foekope to Bruben near Donkokrom, capsized after a windstorm, drowning six occupants on-board.
Confirming the incident to Citi News, Eastern Regional Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Ebenezer Tetteh, said preliminary police investigations indicated that the accident was caused by a windstorm.
“On February 17th at about 8:18pm, Richmond Amponsah of H/No. D48, Donkorkrom, came to the charge office and reported that at about 5:47 one Akoli Afetsi was in charge of an outboard motor canoe with nine passengers on board from Foekope, Dwarf Island to Bruben near Donkorkrom. 
That on reaching a section of the Volta Lake, there was a storm and the boat capsized resulting into the death of Victoria Akoto aged 69, Rebecca Same aged 46, Vena Akpaglo aged 42 a pregnant woman, Patience Afete aged 28,  Kekeli Akpaglo aged 2 and Stanley Dakatsey who is 1-year 4months old”.
Asp Ebenezer Tetteh indicated that the bodies have since been deposited at the morgue as police continue their investigations.
“Bodies of the victims have been retrieved and deposited at the Donkokrom Presbyterian Hospital morgue for autopsy, while police continue with investigations into the unfortunate incident”.
“I will use this opportunity to express our condolence to the families who have lost their relatives and advice canoe owners and operators to pay attention to the changes in the weather and also make provision for life jackets”.
Pregnant woman, 8 others perish as boat capsizes
In August 2016, nine people, including a pregnant woman, drowned when the boat they were travelling in capsized on the Dakar river in the Northern Region.
The Kumasi Traditional Council has summoned the Ashanti Regional Security Council and the Atwima Kwanwoma District Security Council, following the deaths of three residents at Foase during a protest over the relocation of the capital of the Atwima Kwanwoma District.
Members of the Atwima Kwanwoma District Assembly recently called for a probe into events that left three people dead and several others injured at Foase.
The members have questioned the use of live ammunition by police in controlling rioting residents allegedly armed with sticks and stones over the relocation of the district capital.
The angry youth in the area last week mounted roadblocks and burnt car tyres to protest the relocation of the District capital from Ofoase to Twedie.
A confrontation between the youth and police officers who were deployed to the area to maintain order led to the death of three of the protesters.
One person died instantly, while the other two who were rushed to the hospital died some days later.
The Regional Minister who heads the Regional Security Council and the DCE for the area, among other members of both REGSEC and DISEC, are part of the meeting.
Shinefeel Ghana Company Limited at Asutsuare in the Shai Osudoku District, has said it will comply with the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) directive to shut down its plastic processing unit.
The factory’s manager, John Dziwornu, told Citi News, “as a responsible organization, we operate within the law so we’ll act on it [the EPA directive].”
After a trip to the facility by a three-man EPA team, it was concluded that the plastic unit of the plant was not observing the agency’s standards.
This was after the Osudoku SHS closed down due to the emissions from the factory, now confirmed as harmful.
The EPA said the Shinefeel had no permit to process plastics in the Asutsuare area, and must shut down till a permit is issued.
Despite having been operating without a permit, Mr. Dziwornu insisted that, the factory was not trying to cheat the system.
He instead said his outfit was operating for the betterment of the society by, among other things, providing jobs.
“We are providing jobs for people. 
The government wants every district to have a factory and we are creating jobs. 
If you look at the value chain, it is quite huge and the amount of money that it takes to bring all these things around the value chain.”
On the EPA’s urge to fast-track the possible relocation of the school, Mr. Dziwornu said that was up to the Ghana Education Service.
“It is a decision by the Ghana Education Service because the government has to provide them with accommodation and other things. 
We as a company with corporate social responsibility will continue to support any initiative that will spur the development of the school,” he said.
In Citi News’ first reports on the situation at Osudoku SHS, the Headmistress of the school, Sylvia Baaba Yankey, revealed that the students were affected by the smoke from the factories that when some students with health problems were taken to the hospital, doctors thought they were smokers.
“We experience the fumes on the compound every now and then, some of them who took ill were taken to the hospital. 
According to some of them, the doctor advised them to stop smoking, meanwhile they don’t smoke,” the Headmistress said.
According to her, the pollution from the company had worsened such that they had no option than to send the students home for health and safety reasons.
The head of the Agricultural Science Department of the school, Martin Fianoo, confirmed the respiratory problems among students and staff at the school because of pollution from the factory.
“The children have been having respiratory difficulties when they go to the hospital; the doctors accuse them of being smokers. 
Not only the students, the staff also. One assistant headmaster in charge of administration also suffered same.”
Due to this, the assistant Headmaster was transferred to another school because he could not work in such an environment because of the effect on his health.
The Institute of Energy Security (IES) has called for the outright abolishment of the 15 percent Special Petroleum Tax.
The call comes after the Chamber of Petroleum Consumers (COPEC) and the Industrial and Commercial Union (ICU) embarked on a demonstration over frequent hikes in petroleum prices.
The Special Petroleum Tax is one component in the price buildup of fuel at the pumps
The National Petroleum Authority (NPA) has assured that it will take a look at tax and make some adjustment.
But in an interview with Citi Business News, the Principle Research Analysts of the IES, Richmond Rockson maintained that the tax is a nuisance, hence must be removed.
“The challenge is not just about it being 15%. 
If they make it a specific tax, what it means is that if prices are going up on the international market, it will still be the impact on consumers will still be the same here in Ghana,” he argued.
Mr. Rockson stressed that the best way to reduce the burden Ghanaians are going through is to scrap the tax to bring some relief to consumers.
“We are saying that, the NPA and government must abolish it, it’s not a conversation we are looking at.  
Even if we are going to keep it there and its one pesewa, it will still have an effect on the price on the local market so they should just abolish it. 
We disagree with the NPA that it should rather have a fixed price,” he maintained.
Two persons are reported to have sustained gunshot wounds from suspected robbers at North Kanashie on Tuesday morning.
Gunfire was first heard in the area around a Latex Foam showroom at North Kaneshie where the robbers, believed to be four in number, had crashed their vehicle.
It is not clear yet how the suspected robbers crashed their car, and whether there was indeed a successful robbery operation.
There was heavy police presence at the scene of the incident, but police have declined speaking on the matter.
I have no doubt in my mind that history will ultimately judge Lt. Gen. Emmanuel Kwasi Kotoka, Brigadier Akwasi Amankwaa Afrifa, and the others who spearheaded the removal of Dr. Kwame Nkrumah Nkrumah as Ghanaian patriots.
Much as their action opened the floodgates of further military interventions, which most of us today condemn, it cannot be disputed that it was that action which opened up the political space again, and brought notions of democratic development back to the centre of our national deliberations.
The extraordinary, overwhelming popular response to the 1966 coup tells us all we need to know about the positive reaction of the Ghanaian people to it. 
No other coup – be it 1972, 1979 or 1981 – has received the widespread, spontaneous and enthusiastic embrace of the Ghanaian people quite like that of the first one of 1966. 
This is not meant to be a polemical point, just a bare statement of fact. 
The Ghanaian people instinctively recognised that there was no other way. 
Hence, their enthusiasm, because it was Ghana’s Day of Liberation.
It is a matter of some amusement that those, who today are some of the most vociferous champions of Nkrumah’s reputation, were young persons who could not have experienced the events of the time. 
Kwesi Pratt and Prof. Akosa are both children of CPP parents. 
Pratt, guardian of the flame, was barely old enough to be a young pioneer at the time of Nkrumah’s overthrow to appreciate the situation then. 
In the same way, Prof Akosa, who was not even four years old at the time of Ghana’s independence, could not have too many conscious memories of Nkrumah’s rule, other than those handed down to him from his father, the fearsome DC Akosa, whose autocratic, arbitrary rule of the Sekyere area in Eastern Ashanti, as a District Commissioner, was a notorious byword in the CPP era.
However they came by these memories, they are entitled to them and to their views of Kwame Nkrumah. 
By the same token, they should recognise that others are equally entitled to their views of Kwame Nkrumah. 
It is the height of arrogance for anybody to assume that he or she has a monopoly on patriotism. Acknowledging this would enhance the quality and tone of our public discourse. 
It would breed more mutual respect between the opposing camps, which would be in the public interest. 
It appears, despite the passage of time, that the passions generated by the events of the First Republic will not abate. 
Hopefully, in the freer atmosphere of the Fourth Republic, the heated exchanges will end up by giving us a more constructive appreciation of the past for the benefit of our nation’s progress.
It is important to state for the records, records which cannot be disputed by anyone that, by the time of the overthrow of Kwame Nkrumah, Ghana had become a one-party state in which the colours of the one party – the Convention People’s Party (CPP) – had become the nation’s colours, replacing the national colours. 
The creation of the one-party state had been effected through one of the first, if not the first, of the 90% plus “referenda” that came to characterise the results of “referenda” in post-colonial Africa.
By 1966, the multiparty state and the constitution negotiated at Ghana’s independence, just nine years earlier, laid in ruins. 
The United Party (UP) opposition had been decimated, with its leaders and activists either languishing in prison under the Prevention Detention Act (PDA) or in exile.
Indeed, the UP exiles in Lome, Abidjan and Lagos were the first political refugees of post-colonial Africa. 
The 69-year-old J B Danquah, Kwame Nkrumah’s great antagonist, the man whose scholarship gave our nation its name of Ghana, had died tragically in the dungeons of Nsawam Prison without the benefit of a trial. 
It was he who, with George Grant’s money, was responsible for the establishment of the United Gold Coast Convention (UGCC), the first nationalist organisation to agitate for our nation’s independence and freedom, from which Kwame Nkrumah, a member of the legendary Big Six of Ghanaian history, broke away to form the CPP and which gave Nkrumah the platform for his political advancement.
Emmanuel Obetsebi-Lamptey, otherwise known as Liberty Lamptey, another of the Big Six, had suffered the same fate as Danquah, dying in detention without trial, chained to a hospital bed.
Danquah and Obetsebi-Lamptey, the most notable victims of the PDA, were not alone. 
The coup of 24 February 1966 led to the release of more than 2,000 political detainees, including many long-time detainees with five or six years in prison without trial. 
The human rights recordsof the various military governments that succeeded Nkrumah’s were no worse than his. 
At least they had the “excuse” of being unconstitutional governments, ruling by decree. 
What of our constitutional Kwame Nkrumah?
Judicial independence at the time of his exit existed on paper, not in reality. 
In 1963, in reaction to the verdict of the Special Court, a panel of the then Supreme Court, he sacked over the radio on the dreaded 1 o’clock news Chief Justice Sir Arku Korsah, the first Ghanaian Chief Justice, for presiding over the Court that acquitted his erstwhile Ministers and Party officials – Tawiah Adamafio, Ako Adjei (a member of the Big Six, the man who made the fateful introduction of Nkrumah to the Working Committee of the UGCC), and Coffie Crabbe – on charges of treason arising from the Kulungungu bomb attempt on Nkrumah’s life.
Parliament, then fully under his thumb, proceeded by legislation to set aside the verdict of the Court and a new trial ordered. 
The new trial was conducted by Korsah’s successor as Chief Justice, Mr Justice Sarkodie-Addo, with a jury made up of graduates of the Kwame Nkrumah Ideological Institute, who predictably returned a verdict of guilty. 
The retried accused persons were sentenced to death, which Nkrumah, in his ‘magnanimity’, commuted to life imprisonment.
Another consequence of the verdict of this famous trial was Nkrumah’s decision to remove the constitutional restriction on the President’s power to dismiss judges so that he could do so at his pleasure. 
The 90% plus ‘Yes’ votes declared in the 1964 referendum achieved this for him. 
He exercised the power to remove respected, well-known legal personalities from the Judiciary, including Supreme Court judge Edward Akufo-Addo, another member of the Big Six, the future Chief Justice and President of the Second Republic, who was the third member of the Court that acquitted Tawiah Adamafio and the others, to replace them with pro-CPP judges of questionable legal ability. 
We can see, then, that judicial independence and the rule of law were matters of little moment for the Osagyefo. 
But then he was a ‘revolutionary’ for whom the rule of law was an expensive nicety that had no place in the “African Revolution”.
The referendum was preceded, in the culture of the ruling CPP, by a loud and aggressive campaign, mounted by the State and Party media with the notorious Accra Evening News in the lead, against the Judiciary. 
It was a reactionary institution, staffed by “bourgeois” lawyers, who were agents of “neo-colonialism” with strong affinities to the “reactionary” UP. 
A purge of their ranks was needed to ensure that the “people” got a judiciary that was alive to its responsibilities to promote the “African Revolution”. 
Vicious insults, egregious abuse, character assassinations – these were the staple fare of CPP propaganda.
The all-conquering Osagyefo, who, according to legend, was adored in perpetuity by the Ghanaian and African masses, was unable for the last ten years of his rule to organise a general election to test the popularity of his party. 
The 1956 Parliament, elected at the instigation of the British Colonial Secretary, Alex Lennox-Boyd, had a strong CPP majority. 
It was this Parliament that ushered us into freedom and received in 1957 the Scroll of Independence from the hands of the representative of the British monarch to signal the beginning of our modern nationhood. 
In 1960, this Parliament constituted itself into a Constituent Assembly to promulgate the 1960 First Republican Constitution which gave Nkrumah unlimited power, including the power to make laws. 
This was the Constitution into which Kwame Nkrumah’s name was written. 
After promulgating the Constitution, the Constituent Assembly extended the life of the Parliament, i.e. itself, by another term of five years.
By the expiry of its extended term in 1965, the nation had become a one-party state by virtue of the 1964 referendum. 
It was then felt that elections in these changed circumstances were no longer necessary. 
Kwame Nkrumah proceeded to sit as Chairman of the Central Committee of the One Party to share parliamentary seats among his followers. 
There were many anomalies in this tragic exercise, which would otherwise have been laughable but for its seriousness, which, for example, led to a CPP stalwart, Kwesi Ghapson, an Nzema, being given Danquah’s old seat in Kyebi without a single vote being cast in his favour. 
This was Nkrumaist democracy at its best.
Pluralism and diversity in the media by 1966 were things of the distant past. 
Not only had the PDA done its ruthless best to suppress all dissent, the Ghanaian media, which, during the period of the independence struggle in the 1950s, was as vibrant as it is today, had settled into the dull monotony of heaping greater and greater praise on his Messianic Dedication, one of the many appellations that the extraordinary cult of personality surrounding Kwame Nkrumah threw up. 
As his failure to manage the Ghanaian economy became more and glaring, the more strident and expressive were the paeans of praise. 
Fortunately for us, none of his successors has had the craving for adulation, praise and self-glorification that drove Nkrumah. 
Like many of the great tyrants of history, he found nothing wrong in putting up effigies, monuments and statues to his own glory. 
Like the fate that befell many of them, it was no surprise that, when his opponents replaced him in power, those effigies, monuments and statues were pulled down. 
Ancient Roman history is replete with such examples. 
This is why it is always better for posterity to make the judgment on monuments and statues. 
They are invariably more permanent and avoid the hubris of power. 
Self-glorification tends to leave a sour taste in the mouth of observers.
One of the saddest aspects of Nkrumah’s poor governance practices in Ghana was their replication in a majority of the newly independent nation states of post-colonial Africa. 
Because of his justifiable prestige as the first black African leader, it was relatively easy for the new leaders to subscribe to the specious, spurious arguments he had articulated in Ghana to justify authoritarian, personal rule. New nations required “emergency measures of a totalitarian kind” to secure their independence;
“African communalism” meant that “African socialism” provided the natural ideological context for Africa’s “development”; multi-party democracy was alien to African culture and only heightened ethnic, tribal sentiments and allegiances, posing a risk to the integrity of the new states;
“bourgeois rights”, i.e., civil liberties – freedom of speech, freedom of association, freedom of conscience, the right to personal freedom, etc, — were expensive luxuries that new nations struggling to win the war against poverty could not afford.
Such nations required a single-minded focus on their “development” under the direction of an all-knowing, all-powerful “heroic” figure, who was beyond criticism and accountability. 
These were some of the misguided outpourings of the Nkrumaist media in newly independent Ghana. 
The upshot was the plethora of one-party authoritarian states with life presidents that proliferated across Africa in the first three decades of the independence era. 
As we now know, chronic instability, economic backwardness and persistent impoverishment of the African people were the direct consequences of the applications of these false concepts in Africa’s early development.
It should not be taken that the writer of this article sees nothing good in the political career of Kwame Nkrumah. 
Like many of the great figures of history, Nkrumah’s career straddled several different phases. 
For this writer, the Nkrumah of the late forties and fifties was undoubtedly a political figure of the first rank. 
Charismatic, dynamic, with exceptional organisational abilities, Nkrumah, when he supplanted Danquah as the leader of the nationalist movement, led the movement with great panache and flair in a situation of multiparty competition. 
He also brought to Ghanaian nationalism the Pan-African dimension with which his name will always be associated. 
His period as the leader of Government in the 1950s saw a radical expansion of our social and physical infrastructure, with special emphasis on the critical impulse he gave to mass education. 
He was in that period the authentic voice of the African awakening. 
It was for these and for the fact that he was our first leader that he should be commemorated by a “Kwame Nkrumah Memorial Day”. 
It is the tyrant of the 1960s that is a distasteful figure for this writer. 
The writer is and was not alone in this. 
At the time of the exit of the great avowed Pan-Africanist, all of Ghana’s borders – western, northern, eastern, i.e. Ivory Coast, Upper Volta and Togo, respectively – were closed to Ghanaians. Only the southern ‘border’ on the sea was open. 
Even there, a Ghanaian needed an exit permit to reach it.
There have been certain consistent features of our post-1966 constitutional order which tell us that, indeed, the Nkrumah era cannot have been the golden age that Nkrumah fanatics would have us believe.
Firstly, all the Constitutions of the Second, Third and the current Fourth Republic have been unanimous on one basic matter. 
The emphasis on personal rule that characterised the First Republican Constitution and governance in the First Republic has been overridden by a commitment to a system of limited government, in which the separation of powers has been expressly and carefully defined to prevent the kind of concentration of power in one person’s hands which we experienced to our cost in the First Republic.
Secondly, each of the Constitutions has sought by specific provisions to reinforce the general commitment to limited government. 
Thus, each of the Constitutions has forcefully prohibited the exercise of power by Parliament to pass law establishing a one-party state.
Again, preventive detention legislation has been expressly outlawed by each of the Constitutions. 
Again, each of the Constitutions has conferred express power on the Supreme Court to strike down legislation that is unconstitutional or which infringes the letter or spirit of the Constitution.
This was one of the issues in the celebrated case of Re Akoto, when the Supreme Court rejected Danquah’s submission as to the unconstitutionality of the PDA. 
Fundamental human rights have been expressly defined and protected by each of the Constitutions, with the Judiciary being given the responsibility to enforce fundamental rights.
In a rebuke to what happened when Parliament in 1964 nullified the decision of the first Tawiah Adamafio trial, Parliament has been expressly prohibited from altering decisions of the Courts and, by the same token, retroactive legislation is prohibited by the Constitution.
Instead of the President having the power to sack judges at will, which Nkrumah exercised in 1964 to purge the Judiciary of judges that he found “politically incorrect”, complex provisions have been put in each of the Constitutions to govern the process for the removal of judges of the Superior Court of Judicature in order to bolster the independence of the Judiciary.
Again, unlike the situation in 1958 that made it possible for Nkrumah single-handedly to advance £10 million of Ghana’s money to the aid of Guinea in a spirit of Pan-African solidarity, constitutional development in our country has since insisted that only with the approval of Parliament can such acts be undertaken. 
Carpet crossing, one of the means which facilitated CPP domination, has now been prohibited.
A Member of Parliament who wants to cross carpet is required to resign and seek the mandate of his constituents to do so. 
Finally, in order not to repeat the horror of a life presidency, term limits have been placed on holders of the nation’s highest office, the Presidency. If things were so wonderful in Nkrumah’s time, why have so many events of his era been so expressly stigmatised since his overthrow?
Former Deputy Minister of Tourism, Dzifa Gomashie has called on workers in the tourism and hospitality industry in the Volta Region to promote the cultural heritage of the region by encouraging visitors to learn the basics of the Ewe Language.
She suggested exposing tourists to the artifacts that identify the uniqueness of the region.
Madam Gomashie was speaking at an annual award ceremony held over the weekend by the Ghana Tourism Authority to celebrate hardworking workers in the Volta Region’s hospitality and tourism space.
She stressed the need to preserve and promote the unique culture of the people.
“I am encouraging us not be too consumed with the appreciation for other people’s way of lives and their languages but also as you learn other people’s language, teach yours as well. 
If we stop speaking the language, we lose the culture because the culture is carried through the language. 
In every country whose language you don’t even speak, you are forced to learn ‘Hello’ or ‘Thank you; once you get in there, you learn a word or sentence. 
It is the same concept; it is the way in which you do it that is going to make people love it as part of the package or culture in the hotel,” she said.
Extolling the enviable tourism potential of the region, the former deputy Tourism Minister also called on the media to support the campaign of making the Volta Region a major tourism destination in Ghana.
“My own thinking is that, we call the Volta Region, the rainbow region because we have every tribe in this region.  
The topography is very different from any other; we have the savanna, the beach, and the forest areas. 
The way, in which the region changes from Aflao through Ho to Amedzofe, it’s something that I can tell a story with, I can write about in poetry and songs. 
So we need the media to tell these stories.”
It was a night of beautiful performances and display of the rich culture of the Volta Region.
Villa Cisneros Resort in Sogakope, was adjudged the Hotel of the year in the 3-Star Category, followed by Stevens Hotel, Ho and Aseda River Resort Hotel, Juapong who were both awarded Hotels of the year in the 2-star and 1-star categories respectively.
Others awards were handed to Rocklyne Hotel, Ho; Aborigines Beach Resort, Dzelukope; Chances Hotel, Kyabobo National Park, Nkwanta; Sky Plus Hotel, Ho and KCS downtown Ho for Guest House of the year, Budget Hotel of the year, Best Services Hotel, Attraction Site of the Year, Most Consistent Tourism Levy Payer and Fast Food of the Year respectively.
The rest were Lorlornyo Chop Bar, Hohoe; Mirage; Ho and Tour Care International, Hohoe who were awarded Traditional (Chop Bar) Catering, Drinking Spot and Tour Operator of the Year.
Kuul FM, Ho was named tourism-oriented Media House of the Year while Saviour Sika of Kyabobo National Park was adjudged Site Guide of the year.
A senior Lecturer of the University for Development Studies (UDS), Dr. Michael Ayamga has reiterated the need for women to be adequately resourced and empowered to assume their rightful positions in governance at all levels.
According to him, majority of women have been neglected in decision-making for far too long because of patriarchy (male dominance), hence the need for total liberation.
Dr. Michael Ayamga raised this concern at a symposium in Tamale organized by ActionAid Ghana international as part of activities lined up for the 2018 International Women’s Day celebration.
He described women as change agents who deserved equal rights and justice to integrate with society.
He recommended the location of basic amenities near communities to reduce the burden of women accomplishing unpaid care work (domestic chores).
“The siting of basic amenities such as potable water sources, schools, hospitals and markets far away from communities further increases the burden of unpaid care work.”
“The lack of basic amenities in rural communities also made it impossible for majority of women to engage in economic and other social activities that would advance their progress in life,” he stressed.
Dr. Michael Ayamga added that, “Lack of water sources increase the burden of unpaid care work and women spend several hours walking long distances to fetch water. 
If you want to reduce unpaid care work it means that you have to invest in water harvesting systems and community water systems so that it reduces the labour burden of fetching water.”
He posited that women spent an average of 10 hours of their working day doing unpaid care work
“It is a critical development issue especially when women constitute about 51 percent of the country’s population.”
“Women are poor because they do not have enough time to engage in income earning ventures, promote their development and leadership potentials. 
So what we need to do to address the issue of unpaid care work is to consider the distribution of and redistribution of unpaid care work among family members such as wife, husband, aunties and uncles.”
A Project Officer of ActionAid-Ghana International, Safura Abdallah, told Citi News there was steady improvement in the issue of unpaid care work in some of ActionAid’s project communities.
She said many people downplayed the issue of unpaid care work as a serious problem or a major priority.
“I urge the stakeholders to come on board to push for a paradigm shift in the ways household chores are distributed in many Ghanaian homes.”
Madam Safura implored the participants to serve as Ambassadors of change in their localities.
“I am hopeful that participants of the meeting will continue with the advocacy at their workplaces by adopting measures that will help reduce the burden of unpaid care work on women.”
Taking care of the house as well as childbearing is considered the preserve of women in Ghana.
However, these duties mostly go unpaid for leaving majority of women constantly stuck in poverty.
Thus, unpaid care work refers to the services that women provide in their homes and communities including preparing food, collecting firewood and water, and taking care of children, the sick and aged, among others.
A report by ActionAid-Ghana International estimated that if unpaid care works were assigned monetary value, it would constitute between ten and twenty percent of Ghana’s Gross Domestic Product.
Unpaid care work is generally unrecognised and undervalued by policy-makers and the legislature according to the report.
The International Women’s Day, usually celebrated on March 8, is a day set aside to celebrate the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women all over the world.
The 2018 International Women’s’ Day celebration was themed, “Pressing for Progress: a push for gender equality worldwide.”
Ghana has produced some of Africa’s most admired women. 
From Akua Kuenyehia, a former Vice President of the International Criminal Court, to Netflix Chief Marketing Officer Bozoma Saint John, Ghanaian women have a significant presence on the global stage. 
Yet for all the shining stars and international accolades, the Ghanaian public and private sectors have largely fallen short when it comes to championing women in leadership at home. 
The glass ceiling remains stubbornly in place for female leaders. 
The participation of women in key leadership roles is critical for Ghana to unlock its full social and economic potential.
In government, Ghanaian women are extremely under-represented in all branches. 
Women make up a paltry 14% of parliamentarians and only a quarter of ministers. 
Among mayors, the situation is no different: only 14% are women, and the numbers of women on the Council of State and governing boards of public corporations are few and far between.
If you look at the private sector, the situation is no different. 
A new report released by TheBoardroom Africa in partnership with the Ghana Stock Exchange shows that amongst 37 listed companies in Ghana, women are rarely included in the actual governing of some of Ghana’s most notable companies.
According to the 2020 Board Diversity Index, women hold only 23% of board seats and 24% of non-executive director seats. 
Although this figure represents a 3% increase in women’s board seats and a 4% increase in non-executive director seats held by women from 2019, the Board Diversity Index shows that women are still significantly under-represented in the leadership and management of major corporations in Ghana.
Companies that rank poorly in terms of gender equality often claim that there are very few qualified women available for board leadership or management roles. 
But this claim is hardly true. 
There are qualified women everywhere, and, thanks to rising female participation in higher education, their numbers are growing although many disappear from the ranks as they climb the career ladder.
It is time for Ghanaian companies to adopt strategies to improve women’s presence on boards because a growing body of research shows significant benefits associated with gender diversity on boards and in senior leadership.
Gender-diverse boards positively impact governance, and the presence of women on boards reduces the risk of fraud and corruption, and increases customer and employee satisfaction. 
Moreover, studies also point to the positive influence of gender-diverse management and boards on a company’s sustainability profile.
To leverage the diversity dividend, companies can adopt a number of proven strategies to improve women’s representation at the highest leadership levels. 
First, they can address the pipeline problem by investing in early- and mid-stage professionals and providing support for high-achieving female professionals. 
Second, they can establish family-friendly workplace policies from childcare and parental leave to improve retention. 
Finally, they can engage and educate male business leaders on how diversity improves business performance and encourage them to step up and step into the role of mentors and sponsors. 
Adopting these forward-looking approaches would ensure greater involvement of women in shaping corporate strategy.
If Ghana hopes to realise its ambitions as a beacon for the business community, she must adopt forward-looking strategies to develop female leaders and involve more women in the governing process across the board.
Only a quarter of parliamentary seats across the world are occupied by women. 
In Africa, this figure masks a very uneven development with high numbers in countries like Rwanda (64%) and South Africa (46%). At the other end of the spectrum is Ghana (14%), Botswana (10%) and Nigeria (3%).
In the last two decades there have been renewed efforts to promote gender equality in political participation in the hope that more women in parliament would put women’s needs and issues on the political agenda and drive policy interventions that promote gender equality.
A new book, Gendered Institutions and Women’s Political Representation in Africa, examines the intricate dynamics of the formal and informal institutions influencing women’s political representation in eight African countries. In this article we reflect on South Africa and Ghana.
In South Africa, the ruling party, the African National Congress (ANC) introduced a 30% quota before the first democratic elections in 1994. 
In 2009 it changed this to a 50% quota for women in parliament. 
That has not yet been achieved. 
The country’s parliament is made up of 400 members, 249 of whom belong to the ANC. Other parties do not have quotas for women.
In the case of Ghana, efforts are only now underway to get a bill through parliament that would even participation and representation. 
Currently, only 14% of the country’s parliamentarians are women.
In both countries informal institutions – shared norms and unwritten rules – remain stubbornly entrenched and continue to work against meaningful gender representation. 
In many cases, these work against or parallel with formal institutions.
We conclude that the solution lies in addressing the informal constraints and ensuring gender mainstreaming in the political parties themselves in both countries.
Ghana was the first country in sub-Saharan Africa to introduce a quota for women in parliament. 
In 1959 it earmarked 10 seats for women out of a total of 114. 
But this initiative ended when Nkrumah was deposed in 1966.
Women’s political representation in Ghana has never exceeded the present 14%, with 275 seats in parliament. 
In 1998, during the Jerry John Rawlings regime, an administrative directive was adopted. 
The aim was to equip the National Electoral Commission to encourage all the political parties to have more women candidates with a target of at least 40%. 
It was never implemented.
Since 2011, the work with an affirmative action bill has been ongoing. 
But, despite the rhetorical commitments from both the National Democratic Congress and the ruling New Patriotic Party it has not been adopted yet.
An affirmative action bill coalition has even been formed to get it through. 
But a weak national gender machinery and resistance by some male MPs has hampered its adoption.
In addition, there are a vast array of informal institutions that mitigate against women getting into office, and against them getting there in the first place.
Women MPs point to a toxic environment in which a politics of insults, ridicule and rumour work against having more women in political offices. 
Women are put under more scrutiny than their male counterparts. 
They are also attacked by political opponents because of their appearance, gender and sexuality. 
They endure derisive comments about their make-up and have often being labelled prostitutes.
In 2020 the woman running mate from one of the major political parties, the National Democratic Congress, Naana Jane Opoku-Agyamang, was derided as a “witch” by an influential member of the ruling New Patriotic Party.
Another systemic issue is the cost of running for parliament. 
A 2018 report showed that the cost of campaigning for parliament increased by 59% between the 2012 and the 2016 elections.
Pressure eased somewhat through a 50% reduction in 2012 in the filing fees for women candidates. 
But the big expense is on campaigning. 
Being dependent on male networks to access resources also exposes women to rumours that they provide sexual favours in exchange for financial support.
South Africa has put in place a comprehensive set of state structures to promote gender equality. These include an office of the status of women, an empowerment unit in the speaker of parliament’s office, a portfolio committee for monitoring gender equality and an independent commission that’s responsible for gender equality.
But informal institutions and ways of working have blunted gender transformation in the country’s parliament.
Three in particular mean that the process of selecting women for political office is subject to the influence of party loyalties.
The first is ‘slate politics’ which involves a predetermined list of candidates’ names to be considered for nomination prior to an election. 
For example, before elections different factions of the African National Congress (ANC) will have their slates ready with names of party loyalists. 
This does not necessarily include women in a fair and equitable way. 
And the effect of this is that women’s representation is beholden to the goodwill of men.
Secondly, the repurposing of state institutions in a way that undermines their original mandates. 
For example, the integrated set of institutions that should ensure gender equality was replaced by a single ministry with consecutive ministers whose loyalty to the ANC prevents a gender equality agenda.
Finally, women have to contend with the ANC Women’s League that organises women on behalf of the ruling party. 
The main mechanism through which the league achieves compliance is loyalty to the party, and through patriarchal bargains that promote women’s careers in government.
Nor are the formal institutions in parliament able to change this as the Women’s League views itself as the gatekeeper of women’s recruitment and positioning.
The adoption of quotas is seen as the solution to ensure women’s representation and political empowerment in countries with a low representation of women in parliament. Ghana is a case in point.
But South Africa’s experience shows that to achieve substantive gains on gender equality it’s necessary to look beyond formal gender equality reforms. 
Attention needs to be given to tackling the informal institutions that work against having more women in political offices, or when they get there making it impossible for them to promote gender equality.
The political parties in both countries are key actors. 
In Ghana the New Patriotic Party and National Democratic Congress need to distance themselves from the politics of insults, ridicule and rumours. 
They could also set up a fund to support women running for public office.
The processes of putting a quota in place and who controls the electoral mechanisms that give effect to quotas (like getting women onto party lists) should be monitored more carefully. 
And, in South Africa, the ANC has to put in place more formal and transparent procedures and criteria for the selection of candidates.
In both countries, fixing the lack of representation needs to start with the parties themselves.
The Ejurahene, Barimah Osei Hwedie II, has assured residents of Ejura that everything is going to be done to ensure there is justice for the families of the three students who were knocked down and killed in the area.
Barimah Hwedie has also vowed to personally work with the Police and the courts until the final determination of the matter.
The Ejurahene gave the assurance a day after some angry youth in the town stormed the Ejura-Sekyedumase police station to demand the release of the driver and his vehicle to them.
This followed reports that the driver and the accident vehicle had been moved to the Mampong Divisional Police headquarters.
The youth were reportedly angered by the actions of the police amid suspicions that the matter may be swept under the carpet.
The Ejura District Police commander, Chief Superintendent Richarson Kumeko, confirmed that the police officers had to flee for their lives when the rampaging youth stormed the police station.
Several items were destroyed at the Charge Office, according to Chief Superintendent Richarson.
The two female students of the Ejura Islamic Senior High Idrissu Maridiya and Shaibu Farisa, both 19 years, were killed in the afternoon of March 13, 2018 when a Nissan Navara pick up vehicle heading to Sunyani from Atebubu run over them near the Ejura Agriculture School.
The two were part of a group of four students returning home from school, and were pronounced dead at the Ejura government hospital. 
A third student has since passed away, while the last one is in still in a critical condition.
Speaking to the media, Barimah Osei Hwedie said he had convened a meeting on Sunday with all stakeholders to deliberate on the way forward.
“These are our children, and my elders and I will do everything possible to ensure that justice is done. 
I am meeting with all stakeholders to assess the situation and plan on the way forward. 
I want to assure my people that my elders and I will not sit by idle and watch events unfold. 
We will pursue the matter to its logical conclusion.”
“Ejura is a peaceful place, and we will do everything possible to maintain the peace,” Barimah Osei Hwedie concluded.
The Police says it is investigating the matter, and has told Citi News that one person believed to have led the attack on the station has been arrested.
Yaw Osafo Maafo, Senior Minister, has hinted at plans by government to halt the export of raw materials from Ghana to enrich other economies.
“There will be no export of raw materials from this country. 
Government is determined that we are going to have value addition to our raw materials to create employment for our own people,” he said.
Mr. Maafo said this on Thursday at Batsona during the inauguration of the Tema West Municipal Assembly which was carved out of the Tema Metropolitan Assembly (TMA).
Observing the effects that the exported raw materials have had on Ghana, he said, “We cannot have a situation in which our raw materials are used to create employment for people elsewhere whilst our people live in poverty.”
He said, “We want jobs for our people. 
The number one problem we have in Ghana today is unemployment, but we always export our raw materials unprocessed for them to process which brings a lot of revenue and creates jobs for their people.”
“So government has resolved that it won’t allow the export of these materials without adding value to them here in Ghana”
He said some countries had such a law, and that the government was currently looking at draft legislation which would demand that all raw materials in Ghana should be processed before exported.
Five persons have been arrested in connection with a robbery at a Total Fuel Station at Mampong Bosofour in the Ashanti Region.
The suspects; Inusah Braimah, 34, Iddrisu Amidu alias Jogo, 34, Hamidu Zonogor, 48, Kofi Bukari alias Mipellar, 42 and Musah Haruna, allegedly attacked and robbed the Total Fuel station on Friday 2nd March,2018.
Police at Asante Mampong had information that some suspected armed robbers numbering about six (6) had attacked and were robbing attendants at the Mampong Bosofour Total Fuel Station.
Police proceeded to crime scene, but the robbers had already left the scene leaving Davis Frimpong the Branch Manager station with injuries in the head.
The victim who was rushed to the Hospital informed police that five (5) men who were wielding machetes attacked the station at about 6:30 pm, and robbed them of cash sum of Eleven Thousand Ghana Cedis (Ghc 11,000) and five assorted mobile phones amidst gun shots.
An immediate search conducted by police at the scene revealed six (6) empty Supreme FTB BB and AAA, 32GR 70 MM cartridges.
The police patrol team after leaving the fuel station extended their patrols towards Mampong-Ejura road.
In the process, the team spotted an Opel Astra Taxi Cab with registration number GW 9311 V with two occupants on board at Kofiase junction.
The team became suspicious and approached them, but one of the occupants escaped leaving Inusah Braimah who was driver of the vehicle.
A search was immediately conducted on him in the Taxi Cab and the Eleven Thousand Ghana Cedis (Ghc 11,000) was found on him.
Suspect Braimah admitted to the crime and led Police to a nearby bush to retrieve two(2) shot guns, eleven live Supreme FTB BB and AAA, 32 GR 70MM cartridges and two torch lights.
The police also found two pair of trousers in the bush which the suspect admitted as one of the pair of trousers to be his, and the other belonging to his other accomplice known as Kofi Bukari.
Addressing journalists in Kumasi, Ashanti Regional Police Commander, COP Ken Yeboah, said suspect Braimah led police to arrest the other accomplices at Memenaso near Ejura in the Brong Ahafo Region on 10th March, 2018.
He said efforts are underway to arrest other members of the gang.
This arrest comes at a time when similar robberies have occurred in other parts of the country, raising concerns about general insecurity.
The police administration has stepped up efforts to reduce the robberies by arresting perpetrators and making sure they face the full rigours of the law.
Human beings on this planet earth fight for survival just like plants and animals. 
Out of the effort in fighting for survival, some end up achieving nothing while others end up having something they can boast of. 
Such assets as jobs are vital issues that everyone fights for. 
With the eagerness in fighting for survival, many end up on various job sectors. 
One such job sector is gold mining which is regarded as one of the lucrative jobs according to human perception across the globe.
Entering into gold mining sector expects an individual to go all out by putting up much strength in such for gold. 
However, this sector attracts several health hazards and problems which need much attention by all. 
Such health hazards as chemical, physical and ergonomic are mostly seen in the mining sectors. 
Many individuals have lost their lives and many communities have also lost precious individuals all as a result of exposure to such health hazards and problems. 
Most homes are left broken due to the lost of bread winners due to mining. 
The search for gold in Ghana is on the rise as it attracts huge sums of money for the workers but they forget the health implications.
The rise in search for gold has led to the establishment of several illegal gold mining firms across the country. 
The worse of this is the invasion of hundreds of Chinese, Niger, Burkinabe, Nigerians and other citizens who are into the Ghanaian communities doing illegal mining and destroying the environment. 
One might ask how these nationals from other countries came into the country and even how they obtained their visas is a great question to be answered by the Ghana Migration Board and the various Ghana Embassies abroad. 
One most important issue that needs urgent attention is the fact that these nationals use various weapons to protect areas of operation on the Ghanaian community they operate. 
No wonder, that, there have recently been killings of Ghanaian citizens by the Chinese illegal miners in places like Konongo, Obuasi, Kubi-Kwanto, Esase Bontefufuo and Manso areas in Ashanti Region, Prestea, Bogoso and Dwira Benso areas in Western Region, and Dunkwa-On-Ofin areas in the Central Region. 
It is sad that even some deaths by some Ghanaian citizens are not even recorded or reported to the police for arrest of the culprit in the mining communities.
My own investigations show that, some of these illegal miners pay bribes to some Ghanaian citizens and they allowed them to operate under cover. 
Some illegal miners also operate under cover of areas where one will not even think mining operations can take place. 
Some of these are villages around Wa in the Upper West Region and Bolgatanga and its surroundings in the Upper East Regions all in the northern part of Ghana.
The current state of the nation (2013) is very terrible in mining communities. 
There is insecurity, increase in morbidities and mortalities in various mining communities across the country. 
These have been as a result of the scramble for gold just for survival and the aim of getting rich. 
Limited healthcare facilities to address the mining related health problems have also been a championing factor for the rise in morbidity and mortality in mining areas. 
Personal observation could be concluded that, there have been major health problems which are not attended to in such mining communities as Dunkwa-On-Ofin, Manso-Nkwanta and its surroundings, Tarkwa, Kibi, Bawku, Dwira Benso, Bibiani, Wa, Kanyasi No 2, Konongo and its surroundings, Esaasi Bontefufuo and other mining communities across the country. 
Majority of Ghanaians will be surprise to know that mining activities go in the northern part of the country in places like Wa and its surroundings, Bolgatanga and Bawku and its surroundings. 
This is because, mining activities is only noted in the middle and southern belts of Ghana according to majority of Ghanaians. 
The whole nation is at risk of mining related health hazards and problems not only on the environment but also most importantly on water bodies and human health.
The situation is so alarming that if care is not taken, by the year 2020, the situation could be worse and Ghana will have to pay a high price in addressing mining related health hazards and problems if the situation is not addressed from now. 
There could be serious crises in mining communities as community folks may also pick up weapons to retaliate of the actions of the illegal miners from other countries to fight for their rights and liberty. 
There could be shortage and higher rate of contamination of ‘’portable water’’ and food crops in mining areas. 
My third study explains into details mining effects on food crops. Life expectancy in mining areas may decrease which may be attributed to high exposure of chemical, ergonomic and physical mining health hazards.
In addition, there have also been major damages or destruction of properties like land and mostly water bodies. 
Land and water bodies suffer greatly from illegal mining operations in Ghana. 
Chemicals such as cyanide, lead and mercury which are used for gold purification are used with less knowledge by these illegal miners. 
After use, they allow the residue which also contains poisonous contents to run into water bodies thereby making the water unsafe for use. 
In my first paper, little was said about the real mining effect on water, but this paper describes in details the most important effects of illegal mining on water bodies in Ghana. 
Water as a basic necessity should be accessible and affordable in middle-income country like Ghana. 
But it is very sad that majority of water bodies are destroyed through illegal mining operations. 
Major water bodies like Offin, Tano, Ankobra, Pra, White Volta, Black Volta, Bia, Birim and Afram rivers have all been contaminated through mining activities in Ghana.
My personal enquiry showed that majority of hospital data in most mining communities in Ghana reveals that, most reported cases are associated to water health effects which may be attributed to mining operations. 
In 2001, mining communities in Ghana were seen to have high prevalence of malaria cases which was attributed to mining operations (Ghana Health Service Report, 2001).
Majority of residents in mining communities are facing lots of challenges with regards to seeking for medical care for mining related health problems. 
Some residents in mining communities live in far away villages where healthcare facilities are not readily accessible and affordable, others have no money to attend hospitals while others are afraid of screening and others are willing to be screened provided treatment is free after showing reactive to any health problem (Atakora, M.O., 2012).
It has been identified that majority of the health problems residents face are associated to mining impact on water bodies. 
Greatly, most residents also find it very cumbersome to have access to portable drinking water as the water have been contaminated by chemicals such as mercury, lead and cyanide which are used in gold processing. 
The entire environment is also affected as the vegetation also use contaminated water for photosynthesis.
It is due to this that this study is being taken to find out what could be done to address the situation. 
Lots of residents in mining communities suffer greatly from various kinds of cancer, skin infections and other related health problems as a result of the use of contaminated water for basic necessities. 
Therefore, the overall objective of this study is to investigate into the prevailing health problems of mining on water bodies in seven selected regions in Ghana which include; Ashanti, Brong Ahafo, Central, Eastern, Upper East, Upper West and Western Regions.
The theoretical frame work for this study was based on the owned developed Conceptual Framework dubbed Water and Mining Health Assessment Diagram (Atakora, M.O., 2013) similar to the one used in paper I on mining. 
This was a community based developed frame work based on respondents opinion and views of how illegal mining operations release health hazards into water bodies.
The framework addresses issues about mining health hazards and problems, health status, cost for healthcare and decision making by the individual.
It is believed that mining operations releases health hazards and problem that determines the health status (good or poor), this also determines the healthcare cost (the higher the exposure to the health hazards and problem the longer or shorter the treatment period). 
The only way of preventing oneself from further exposure is by death or migration. 
However, those with no other option go back to the mining community to further be exposed to the health hazards and problems.
Those with strong financial standing are able go for better treatment compared to those in the lower financial standings. 
The framework was further tested among the population and it was proved positive in addressing mining health hazards and problems. 
It addresses issues of developing community interventions to addresses the health problems. Such interventions as offering assistance to neighbours and relatives were king. 
This was accepted because due to the inability of most victims to cater for themselves due to financial difficulties. 
The framework also suggested to mining companies to put up second level cluster healthcare centres in the communities to help treat mining related health problems immediately to prevent further complications. 
All these were addresses in my first paper (Atakora, M.O., 2012).
The framework just highlighted on issues on water pollution in the first paper but discussed further in this paper. 
Most water bodies are destroyed due to the used of cyanide, mercury and lead chemicals for gold purification. 
From personal observation, by 2020 between 60% to 80% of water bodies would have been destroyed in Ghana if illegal gold mining is not controlled. 
Major water bodies like Tano, Offin, Pra, Ayensu and others would be greatly affected by 2020. 
The framework is of the view that if there of rigid environmental regulations there would be a reduction on the devastating state of water bodies through mining activities.
The framework is also of the view that artificial dams should be created in areas of mining operations to be used for gold processing. 
The suggestion also is that, there should be a way of recycling these dams for further usage in gold processing. 
This will totally prevent miners from using natural water bodies for gold processing for them to be contaminated with mercury, cyanide and lead chemicals. 
Instead, these chemicals could be left to remain in the dams that would be created in mining environments purposely for gold processing.
Response and observations showed a significant difference of proportion in reporting community’s awareness on effects on the use of contaminated water bodies which related to illegal mining operations. 
The awareness level may be associated to the experience in working or staying in a particular mining area for longer period of time. 
However, it was observed that most water bodies that have been destroyed contained lead, mercury and cyanide chemicals which are used for gold purification.
It can be observed that, very few respondents (about 12.4%) are not aware of the real health effects on illegal gold mining on human and water bodies. 
The chart below shows a complete awareness level of the respondents of this study. 
Although, they are aware of the health effects but they cannot stop due to economic hardships according to the respondents. 
They reported that, that is their only source of employment that helped them to cater for their families.
Experiencing a particular health problem related to illegal golf mining was difficult addressing them through proper health care services. 
Majority of the workers do not visit the health care facility even though they are aware of the illegal gold mining health hazards. 
When interacted with regarding the reason for majority of them not visiting the health care facility, they reported that, they have their own medication – herbal. 
Very few of them who visited the hospital also said they were tired of attending review after first visit.
Regarding water bodies, almost all reported that they only wash the gold dust and the chemical is not poisonous to human use. 
Very few reported that the chemicals left in the in particular water body runs into another. 
They had no idea of the destruction of water bodies through illegal gold mining operations and modalities of preserving the water bodies from damaging. 
Let us also not forget of the damaging to farm lands and in the general the forest reserve.
Though the study is at its premature stage but available data gathered so far is enough to justify the damage illegal gold mining is causing to water bodies, farm lands and specifically human health in Ghana.
The Rush for Gold through illegal gold mining has led to the destruction of majority of water bodies in Ghana leading to the increase in morbidity across all regions selected for this study. 
Ashanti, Brong Ahafo, Central, Eastern, Upper East, Upper West and Western Regions have the highest illegal gold mining operation activities in Ghana. 
In all, a personal observation showed that about 96 water bodies combined in Ashanti, Brong Ahafo, Central, Eastern and Western Regions have been contaminated with lead, mercury and cyanide chemicals which are being used for illegal gold mining operations in 2013/2014 periods. 
The effects on these water bodies have caused such health problems as lever, kidney, intestinal, eye infection and other injuries within the regions the study was done.
As at 2013 and 2014, a personal observation across the regions showed that River Offin, Tano, Ankobra, Pra, Oda, Bia, Birim and Afram have greatly been polluted by illegal mining operations. 
The heavy pollution of water bodies is made it too expensive for the Ghana Water Company Limited (GWCL, 2014) to operate water treatment plants in many mining communities across the nation. 
This has led to the increase in budget for purchasing chemicals and other equipment for the treatment of the water to make it safe for use.
Also, in 2013, most treatment plants have been shut down by the GWCL. 
For instance, treatment plant for Oda River in Obuasi area, Birim River in Kyebi and River Offin in Dunkwaw have one time been shut down to save it from permanent damage due to the high level of chemicals in the water which are extracted for treatment. 
The high level of chemicals in the polluted water bodies is far from the WHO’s limit. 
This also make way for the GWCL to also increase (exceeding the WHO’s limit) the amount of chemicals used in treatment the water for various uses. 
The issue now here is that, we are all at fault but we should find way of dealing with illegal gold mining to help save water bodies, farm lands and human health.
Currently (2013/2014) more than fifty (50) rivers and streams in Obusai area have been destroyed,  more than twenty (26) in Wassa area, more than eight( 8) in Bibiani, more than eleven (11) in Ahafo/Tepa area, more than 11 at Prestea-Tarkwa and more than five (5) in Yalei in the Upper East region due to illegal gold mining. 
A personal observation in 2013 shows that, Densu River in Atiwa forest which supplies about 65% of water to the population in Accra has been polluted with illegal gold mining chemicals. 
Though, there have been law enforcement to control illegal gold mining operations but the practice still go on. 
Whose fault?
I took a personal journey to these arease, during this study for personal observational operations as well as interacting with some community folks. 
It was observed that the concentration of lead, mercury, cyanide, silica, iron, manganese, zinc and nickel in the water which is higher than the WHO allowable limits according to some experts have caused lots of harm to health.
Based on this study, about 70% of most health problems identified in the regions the study was conducted may be attributed to illegal gold mining operations. 
Majority of farm lands have also been destroyed in these areas. 
Deep pits and holes created have been left uncovered leading to water stagnation and breeding mosquitoes to course malaria. 
These deep pits and holes also serve as death trap for innocent people. They fall into them unknowingly and die unrecorded.
Looking into the state of these illegal gold mining communities as at 2013/2014, one may conclude that, there is insecurity in these mining communities. 
As town folks protect their farm land from being destroyed, foreign nationals who are into the country purposely for illegal gold mining fight them with weapons resulting in the killing of some town folks. 
Sadly, some of these deaths are not even recoded or reported to the police. This has created fear and panic living in these communities.
Increase in morbidities and mortalities in various mining communities across the country is also on the rise. 
Due to unemployment and poverty, majority of those living the mining communities rely on cheap health services especially in place where there are no hospitals resulting in worsening their health conditions. 
This, I must say should be addressed as soon as possible to relief these people from their predicament by providing hospital with qualified health personnel to help alleviate their problems.
Contamination of water bodies and food crops are on the rise in mining areas leading to higher cost of food crops and other commodities. 
Farm lands and water bodies have been destroyed through illegal mining operations with lead, cyanide or mercury in majority of water bodies and farm land being destroyed with holes and deep pits leaving uncovered.
There have been repatriation of illegal miners from other countries but there are still other nationals from Burkina Faso, China, Niger, Nigeria operating in illegal gold mining. 
This study therefore recommends Ghana to strengthen the immigration regulations to make it uneasy for foreign nationals to enter the country. 
One may also ask, who issue the Ghana Visa to these nationals? 
Have there not been proper checks on the documents of these nationals documents submitted for the issuance of visas?
Illegal gold mining have lead to the killing of some Ghanaian nationals by other nationals due to illegal mining. 
Major sad observation recorded showed that most of such killings are  not reported to the police. 
Interactions on this subject revealed that previous killings reported have taken no effect. 
Therefore, the only way is self defence which have lead to insecurity in such communities leading to in fear and panic in such communities.
Based on personal observation, this study have been very important to alert the population of the effect of illegal gold mining across the regions the study was done. 
There are some remarkable observations made which may be considered for further investigation.
It was observed that, inadequate education of environmental and mining regulations may have contributed to illegal gold mining operations across the country. 
There is therefore the need for strict enforcement of environmental and mining law across the country.
Again, the use of lead, mercury and cyanide chemicals in illegal gold mining processes may have potentially contributed to the contamination and destruction of majority of water bodies and farm lands leading to the increase in morbidities and mortalities. 
Malaria, chronic pains and skin infection are among the major health problems identified. 
It could also be added that, one major cause of the rush for gold have unemployment especially among the youth between the ages of 18 and 45 years.
Irrespective of these, this study therefore suggests that; the creation of other source of income other than illegal gold mining by government through district, municipal and metropolitan assemblies is important. 
This could be done by creating at least one major state factory in every district in Ghana. 
This would reduce the pressure on illegal gold mining.
Strengthening of the nation’s migration laws would be a powerful tool to control illegal migrants who come into the country purposely for illegal gold mining. 
But, one major observation made was that some migration officials even have links with such illegal gold miners. 
As a results they, manoeuvre to help issue visa to other nationals who come into the country illegally.
Finally, rregulating illegal gold mining companies into the formal sector is important. 
This will help to even collect taxes by the Ghana Revenue Authority (GRA) for developments.
The abandoned $860,000 Volo Samsung Digital Village finally saw some activity on Sunday after the North Tongu MP, Samuel Okudzeto Ablakwa and a team of health professionals kick-started a medical outreach programme based at the village’s health centre.
There are now plans in the works to host periodic medical outreaches for residents of the North Tongu District and beyond.
“Thankfully we have been able to put together an improvised programme where we will carry out monthly outreaches free of charge. 
At least, we have raised enough resources to take care of the volunteer doctors and volunteer nurses and other medical staff who have agreed to form a partnership with us,” Mr. Ablakwa told Citi News.
He also revealed that after three years, a doctor had finally agreed to be posted to the health centre.
“We have also finally got a medical doctor who has agreed to be posted here and this is the first time we are going to have a medical doctor in this part of the constituency… 
He tells us that he is just waiting for his release documents and he will come but we are very grateful to him for accepting to come help us.
The digital village project comprises a solar-powered library and a health facility which was funded by Samsung and UNESCO for the government of Ghana in May 2015.
Located at Volo, a fishing community, its construction was aimed at providing the essential educational and health needs of about 5,000 people in that community and surrounding communities.
But since its commissioning, it had not been operational.
Mr. Ablakwa noted earlier that about GHc500,000 is required to construct decent accommodation facilities for the prospective health professionals who may accept to work at the facility.
Citi News‘ last visit to the facility revealed that one of the solar panels on the roof had been blown off and the various diagnostics units were at the mercy of animals.
According to some news reports, health workers and residents were not in support of the location of the facility, which they say is isolated from many community members.
Mr. Ablakwa, who disclosed there were earlier plans to revamp the Centre, said the moves were expedited following Citi News reports on the sorry state of the $860,000 investment.
Ghanaian music legend, Charles Kofi Mann, popularly known in music circles as CK Mann, has passed away.
His death which occurred at the GHAPOHA hospital in Takoradi at about 7 am on Tuesday, 20th March 2018, was announced by his son Albert Ato Mann to Citi News’ Obrempong Yaw Ampofo.
The music legend has been battling some medical conditions in recent times.
The ailment is said to have intensified since last December.
He was 83.
CK Mann is the producer of great highlife songs such as ‘Adwoa Yankey,’ ‘Mber Papa,’ ‘Medo Wo,’ ‘Araba Lucy,’ ‘Wode a Ne Me,’ among others.
The family, according to Ato Mann, is yet to meet to roll out arrangements towards his burial and final funeral rites.
His demise comes not long after another highlife legend from the Western Region, Paapa Yankson passed on.
C.K. Mann (Charles Kofi Amankwaa Mann) was born in 1936 in Cape Coast. A former seaman and a member of Kakaiku’s Guitar Band for some time, he joined the Ocean Strings’ which he led until 1965.
The band folded up and the owner of Princess Cinema in Takoradi invited C.K. to lead the Carousel 7, a newly formed resident band of the Princess nightclub. 
He then came to prominence with a single hit record Edina Benya in 1969.
C.K. has leapt to fame with his captivating revival and modernization of ‘Osode,’ the traditional music of the fishermen of Ghana. C.K. Mann explains:
The raw and pure Osode vocal ensemble is unique and can’t be equalled by anyone other than the fishermen folks. 
He also wanted to play Osode and make it appeal to a much wider audience. So he changed the instrumentation a bit and to the Ashowa, the hand piano or rhythm box that is used to perform Osode, he added two guitars, organ, bass, etc.
But he managed to maintain some of the original ingredients such as the hand-claps, and the call and response style of singing.
The outcome of this combination was a mildly melancholy sound which was quite popular on the Ghanaian West Coast market.
After the success of Osode, C.K. introduced wind instruments: the saxophone and trumpet, into his band, The Carousel 7.
The Media Foundation for West Africa, has in a statement condemned in the strongest terms the brutal attack on Latif Iddris, a reporter from Joy News, one of the platforms of the Multimedia Group based in Accra.
Latif Iddris had gone to cover protests at the Criminal Investigations Department of the Ghana Police Service on March 27, 2018, where a Deputy General Secretary of Ghana’s main opposition party, NDC, Koku Anyidoho, was being held on treason charges.
The journalist approached one policeman and asked him the name of one of the anti-riot vehicles that had been deployed to control the crowd.
To his shock, the innocent question angered the policeman who ordered him to get away. The police officer subsequently grabbed the retreating journalist from behind and slapped him for “asking a stupid question.”
“He then pushed me into a crowd of other police officers who had no clue what had transpired between the two of us but also started beating me up,” Iddris later narrated.
The police officers, now numbering about eight, took turns to assault the journalist.
One of them hit him in the rib with a stick; another officer used the butt of his gun to hit his head about three times. 
Some of the officers also kicked him.
After about seven minutes of manhandling, the reporter was rescued by another senior officer. 
Iddris was rushed to the Light House Hospital at North Kaneshie, a suburb of Accra, where he received treatment for the swellings on his face and bruises on his body.
The MFWA is thus calling on the leadership of the Ghana police Service to immediately investigate the incident and bring to book the officers who perpetrated the violent crime against the journalist.
“We also call on the Ghanaian media and journalists to stand up against acts of violence against colleagues” the MFWA said.
Though the exact savings from the renegotiation of the Karpower deal from 10 to 20 years are yet to emerge, Ghana will be saving at least $60 million per year, according to a deputy Minister for Energy, William Owuraku Aidoo.
These savings will come from the utilization of gas from the Sankofa fields.
Mr. Aidoo justified the Akufo-Addo’s administration’s extension of the deal it once criticized, and said the previous deal was not cost-effective because of the 10-year duration.
It is unclear what the new terms are, but the company recently announced it will move from using Heavy Fuel Oil [HFO] to natural gas when it moves the vessel from Tema to Takoradi.
The Karpowership from Turkey has the capacity to supply 470 megawatts (MW) of power to Ghana.
“The basic structure of the deal then was totally wrong. It was nothing to write home about… 
We’ve renegotiated the Karpower deal and stretched it over 20 years to ensure value for money,” Mr. Aidoo said on Eyewitness News.
“If you sign a power purchase agreement over a short period of time; that was 10 years, what it meant was that the good people of Ghana would virtually have to pay through the nose over a 10-year period which necessarily means they would have to pay higher tariffs. 
To stretch over a longer period will [see tariffs] come down to somewhere in the region of 10 cents per [kilowatt hour].”
The tariffs under the previous deal stood at around 15 cents per Kilowatt hour.
Aside from the reduced tariffs, Mr. Aidoo added that, extending the deal also “stabilized the power in the west and at the same time utilizes gas from the Sankofa fields, which if we didn’t will cost the government somewhere in the region of $60 million dollars per year.”
The Member of Parliament for Damongo Constituency, Adam Mutawakilu, however said the renegotiation was nothing exciting.
He also said the reduced tariffs as a result of the extension was no surprise.
“We know Karpower is a ship. 
The moment you extend the period, the tariff will come down so it is not magic that they have done. 
But what they have done is that, by going that way, they will not be able to build an asset for the country. 
That means after 20 years, the ship goes back.”
The MP also maintained that the ship was not needed after 10 years “because we have excess capacity and that becomes an asset to the nation.”
In December 2015, Dr. Mahamudu Bawumia, then running mate to Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, said it “made no sense” for government to secure the power barge as an emergency solution to the power crisis, explaining that the deal did not give the country value for money.
The 225 megawatts power barge docked at the Tema Port in December 2015, to augment the shortfall in power supply at the time.
Per Dr. Bawumia’s analysis, “A 225 megawatts plant like the Karpower Plant that we are renting, will cost some 225 million dollars if we wanted to purchase it; and we will own it. 
Under the Karpower deal, we will pay for the power from the barge for the next ten years whether we use it or not. 
The African Center for Energy Policy (ACEP) estimates that based on the capacity charge alone which is 5.6 percent per kilowatt hour, it will cost Ghana close to one billion dollars over the next ten years for the energy from the barge. 
This, however, excludes the cost of fuel which will require about 35,000 tones every month. 
After ten years, the barge will sail away and with this one billion dollar, we could have built a 1,000-megawatt plant for ourselves. 
Power from the barge will also cost at least twice what it cost to supply power from Takoradi. 
This really does not make sense” he concluded.
Three persons have been confirmed dead after a pit they dug to search for gold caved in at Kokotro in the Bekwai Municipality of the Ashanti region on Friday 30th March 2018.
The three; Augustine Opoku, 17, Evans Mensah, 20 and Emmanuel Aidoo, 19, are all natives of Subriso in the municipality.
Chief Executive for the Bekwai Municipal Assembly, Kwaku Kyei Baffour who confirmed the incident to Citi News said the three young men had dug a pit of about 10 to 20 ft depth to search for the nugget after it rained in the area.
“What happened is enough a warning to whoever wants to go and do same. 
We have warned the people through the Assembly member in the area, and we have also organised community durbars to warn them to desist from such acts,” he indicated.
Mr Kyei Baffour said the Assembly would organise series of engagements with communities within the area to sensitise them on the dangers of entering into pits to carry out illegal mining activities.
The bodies have been deposited at the Akomaa Memorial Hospital at Korchia for preservation and autopsy.
Dr Mahamudu Bawumia hits the nail right on the head when he tells us a major problem in Ghana is not the lack of good laws but non-implementation. 
The Vice President on Wednesday told a National Symposium on the new land law that all the good things in the law will be a mirage if it is not vigorously enforced. 
He charges citizens to “fight the demons and principalities” they encounter in acquiring and registering their lands.
Like many, his joy is that the new law sanitizes and deals with all the known problems. 
Who doesn’t like this good law that compels chiefs, clan and family heads and all other landowners to establish secretariats with registers to manage lands using transparent processes and to render accounts? 
A law that hands five, seven, ten to fifteen years jail terms to chiefs engaged in fraudulent or multiple sales of land, land guards and those behind them who try to use force or violence to obstruct, intimidate or prevent you from developing your piece of land.
A law that ensures you get a refund if a chief or anybody selling land conceals an encumbrance or problem with the land or falsifies the plan-document, or they pay between ¢60-120,000 or go to jail for five to 10 years.
Officials paid to help you register your land get to pay ¢12-14,000 or go to jail for two to five years if they aid fraud by deleting or falsifying land records if they issue fraudulent documents, make fraudulent entries, alter, erase, deface, obliterate or mutilate a land register.
These will now be done electronically. 
But all these good stuff will remain on paper if the Lands Commission is not adequately funded and the stakeholders including the police equipped to enforce the law. Justice Dennis Dominic Adjei observes that a bad law that is properly implemented is better than a good law that is poorly implemented.
The Rent Control Department informs me that about 72% of the complaints it received in 2019 concern rent arrears. 
Tenants are compelled to cough up rent advance for two or more years, only to be evicted in ways prohibited by the law because they cannot pay illegal extortionate rates and illegally increased rents.
Section 25 of the rent law prohibits charging, demanding or receiving rent advance exceeding six months of the monthly rent even if you gave out your apartment for more than two years. 
This is punishable by up to GHC 6,000.00 and/or up two years in jail.
A landlord cannot increase rental charges without permission from the legal authority. 
In fact, before you can advertise your property for rent, you must obtain an assessment certificate by which the Department determines if the premises is tenantable or good for human habitation and the rate to charge.
A copy of each tenancy agreement must be lodged with the Department. Landlords must procure a Rent Card from the Department for tenants in case of monthly or short tenancies. 
They are to issue receipts to tenants to assist payment of rent tax – 8% for premises for domestic use and 15% for commercial use.
If this Department gets the needed attention, it should be able to generate income to improve its facilities and personnel to sanitize the sector and get rid of the injustice many suffer because of accommodation. 
But what do we see except complete disregard for the well-intentioned rent laws rarely enforced in this country.
That’s My Take. 
That’s your legal light. 
Next week, we may bring the experts and duty bearers to answer questions about the problems with landlord and tenant and the way forward including the bigger issue of the housing deficit and affordable housing for a decent living.
Prudential Bank Limited (PBL) has donated 10 ultramodern computers with accessories to the Judicial Service of Ghana at a ceremony held in Accra.
The donation forms part of the bank’s contribution and support to the modernization drive embarked upon by the Judicial Service.
Presenting the items, John K.  Addo, Managing Director of Prudential Bank Limited said, “we align ourselves with the modernization drive because we recognize the need for the Judiciary, as the third arm of government to be abreast with technological advancements and to be adequately resourced in the delivery of justice in this country.”
Mr. Addo commended the Chief Justice, Justice Anin Yeboah on his vision of modernizing the legal systems in the country.
He further noted that the bank believes in giving back to society by identifying such needs and providing the relevant support.
He therefore appealed to like-minded corporate institutions to support the Judicial Service in its pursuit of this course.
The Chief Justice who received the computers on behalf of the Judicial Service expressed profound appreciation to the Management of Prudential Bank for the support.
With respect to the ruling of a Ghanaian High Court this afternoon that 30% of all “funds, revenue, and money earned, paid to, and accruing from the exploration and production of petroleum from the [ENI-Vitol owned Sankofa field] be preserved” in an interest-bearing escrow account held at a bank chosen jointly by Springfield, ENI and Vitol, here is the state of play:
ENI’s global operating margin according to MarketWatch is about 3.31%.
Its Gulf of Guinea numbers (i.e. its macros most relevant to the Ghanaian context) are probably similar.
Were the court, per its order, to detain 30% of gross revenues minus statutory payments (taxes, royalties etc due to Government and similar entities), ENI (and Vitol) will simply not be able to continue producimg any oil from the Sankofa field.
ENI’s counter-argument based on the same data analysed by GNPC turns on their belief that there isn’t even enough oil on the Springfield side of the straddling fields to be worth developing and perhaps this is why Springfield has all this while not even bothered with an appraisal campaign or commenced production.
They also contend that because they have been producing oil on their side of the “border” for quite sometime now, there would have been some “pressure effects” on the Springfield side, detectable in the GNPC analysed data, were the two fields to be truly connected.
To ENI, only the drilling of more appraisal wells on Springfield’s side will address the issue.
Given that in the last 20 years, the worldwide average cost of drilling and completing an offshore well exceeds $90 million, the issue of further appraisal of the Afina field is one of both risk mitigation and financial commitment. 
Hence, either Springfield lacks commitment or risk appetite.
GNPC and Springfield argue back that Ghanaian policy is founded on the principle that when adjoining fields are connected, they must be developed together in order to “maximise recovery” of the resource. 
Talk about further appraisal is premature when what is needed is immediate merger of the fields so that ENI does not continue to drain the common reservoirs.
Hence, the deadlock has evolved into a hopeless stalemate of technical analysis-paralysis.
With this context in mind it is not surprising that some analysts I have spoken to believe that the High Court ruling could break the stalemate. 
Until now, ENI had no real incentive to speed up resolution as its production was unaffected. 
Detaining 30% of revenues from the field is sure to get the attention of ENI’s bosses in the Piazza Ezio Vanoni.
Will the equity split among Springfield, ENI and Vitol be determined subsequent to appraisal of the Afina Field? 
If so, how is that different from the status quo? In short: is determining how much ENI, Springfield and Vitol should own in the joint field dependent on finding out how much oil is in Springfield’s field right now through additional appraisal? 
If so, then aren’t we back to square one? 
Because this is precisely what ENI has been pushing for and Springfield has been resisting. 
But if that is not done, then how will the percentage equity split be determined? 
If the split is not determined how can a joint plan of development be agreed upon?
Here is where GNPC has done the nation a great disservice. 
Its advice to the Minister so far lacks the depth and creative thinking needed to truly unlock the complexity of trying to merge an already producing field with one that has not yet been fully surveyed (technically, “appraised”).
As a minority stake owner in both Afina and Sankofa, and as an entity that can increase its leverage further in a merged field, GNPC has the strategic positioning to think more holistically about a path to resolution that can accelerate unitisation because it presents all the parties with a win-win unitisation configuration. 
There are a thousand and one ways in which a unitisation can be done, but most are impractical and few are pareto-efficient. 
GNPC’s technical insight would have been most useful if it had helped to break the strategic logjam through superior analysis of options, scenarios and trade-offs.
Instead, GNPC has failed to help the Minister think through the details and intricacies properly by making it look as if all that matters is to procure the bare minimum technical reasons to support unitisation. 
When in fact it is how unitisation is to be approached that has caused this unfortunate stalemate. 
Unfortunate, because the continued delay in the development of Springfield’s Afina implies lost opportunities of employment, revenue to the state and the potential development of indigenous capabilities in the oil and gas sector. 
Whilst any legal risks to ENI’s Sankofa’s continued production mean immediate adverse effects on jobs, spending in the local economy, gas supply for power, and government revenue (which in 2019 amounted to nearly $260 million).
Nothing in the analysis GNPC, in its capacity as the national oil company, and thus de facto principal technical advisor to the state, has produced to date offers any serious insight as to how unitisation can be creatively structured to overcome the very real uncertainties about volumes in the separate fields, equity splits of the joint field and need for redesign of existing production architecture to accommodate a greenfield operation. 
And we have read all their reports on the matter.
Without creative breakthroughs in thinking, the unitisation process, even when commenced, will become bogged down in a similar protracted analytical stalemate as we have witnessed over the last two years.
It is time for the Government to broaden its advisory arsenal well beyond the GNPC, an organisation that has become more and more lacklustre under its present leadership.
General Secretary of the National Democratic Congress (NDC), Johnson Asiedu Nketia has urged the Youth Wing of the party and members of the public to ensure all Covid-19 safety protocols are followed to the latter during Tuesday’s protest.
According to the party in its press statement, it is imperative the safety protocols are adhered to following the emergence of the deadly Delta variant of Covid-19 in the country as announced by the Information Ministry.
The four listed directives issued by the General Secretary of the party include wearing of facemasks throughout the march from the starting point, i.e. Accra Mall at 6 am to the end-point; the Parliament House after making a stop at the Flagstaff House to present a petition to the President.
“Social distancing at arm’s length between rows of protesters should be maintained at all times throughout the march and physical contact avoided as much as possible.
“Protestors should endeavour to use hand sanitisers periodically in the course of the march and should wash their hands at the end-point of March before dispersing,” are the other directives to follow.
Against a background of growing demand for gold and rising precious metal prices, gold washing and gold smuggling are on the increase in Ghana. 
Two stubborn scourges affecting the country’s economy and damaging the environment.
Contrary to what one might be led to believe from certain rumours, it’s not the major gold mining companies that are at fault, but instead the gold washers.
In Ghana, gold smuggling regularly makes the news, leading to the CEO of Ghana’s Chamber of Bullion Traders Daniel Krampah issuing a statement on the subject on 10 June in a bid to silence a number of rumours about the mining industry.
Currently at issue are gold exports worth some US$5 billion sent to refineries in the United Arab Emirates that have not been accounted for.
According to Daniel Krampah, “failing to account for gold is administratively impossible for any registered gold company – given the gold export frameworks and the rigidity of the customs systems in both Ghana and UAE”.
Before any gold leaves the country, the exporting company has to assay the gold in a dedicated laboratory to determine its quantity, quality and value. After these checks, a certificate is issued once all necessary taxes, fees and charges have been paid.
The gold is certified by the customs division and is then handed over to the airline, which also certifies that the right documents have been issued on the export.
At the destination point, further verifications are conducted based on the documents accompanying the gold. 
It is impossible for mining operators to avoid these procedures and export gold outside of these established channels.
Without forgetting the fact that in 2018, Ghana, Liberia and Sierra Leone established a joint portal for conducting customs checks on minerals.
The aim is to enable customs officers to check and consult the export permits for minerals that have been issued and avoid having to wait to get missing information or having to make a decision based on only partial information.
The fact still remains that gold smuggling is on the increase in Ghana – Africa’s leading gold producer (147 tonnes were mined in 2019).
According to Comtrade, the international trade statistics database, the value of the imports into the UAE (which regularly exceed declared exports) is a good indicator of just how widespread this illegal activity is.
This means a significant loss of earnings for a State in which gold is the number one export product.
This trend is being driven by increased small-scale mining operations, which in turn are a consequence of the increase in gold prices.
Although most gold is mined by major companies, black-market gold washing, which is rife throughout the subregion, provides an income for millions of artisanal gold washers. 
The phenomenon has become considerably more widespread over the last few years.
Ghana is no exception – artisanal mining operations account for a third of all gold mined in the country, and have a devastating effect on the environment.
The reason is that unregulated mining is responsible for 25% of all of the local vegetation that has been destroyed over the past 15 years, and using mercury to form mercury-gold amalgam with smaller gold particles leads to long-term water and soil contamination, resulting in serious health problems.
Ultimately, this illegal gold smuggling contributes to the development of illegal small-scale mining operations, and Ghanaian gold washers are not the only ones to benefit from this. 
The activity is so lucrative that a number of criminal companies controlled by foreigners now have a stranglehold on artisanal mining – an activity which is still insufficiently regulated.
The gold then passes from miners to intermediaries who then transport it such that no traces of its origins can be detected.
Let’s say we win the war against Galamsey. What next?
I propose a stand-alone codification of the law on small-scale (artisanal) mining, a more rigorous application and enforcement of it, and setting up a special division of the Minerals Commission headed by a Deputy Chief Executive dedicated to artisanal mining.
Then, if we direct resources to applying and enforcing the rules, we could have a vibrant, responsible and well-regulated artisanal mining industry that will create employment and wealth, and still protect the environment.
Today’s mess is the direct result of a historical antagonisation of artisanal mining, then a 20-year reluctant legalisation from 1986, and then an abject failure of regulation from 2006.
The last of these is ironic because since 2006, Ghana has had one of the best legal blueprints for regulating artisanal mining anywhere in the world.
Artisanal mining was what we did before the colonialist introduced legislation that demanded levels of government licensing.
One colonial ordinance demanded that a person had to be able to read or understand the law, and provide proof of sufficient funds for prospecting before obtaining a licence. 
Mining was only allowed after successful prospecting.
Provisions like these made it well-nigh impossible for the indigenous Ghanaian to undertake legal mining, and effectively limited mining to the state or big-money foreign interests.
Some of these discriminatory legal provisions remained a part of our law (even the 1962 Act) until 1986!
But in this period, and not to be outdone, ‘illegal’ mining continued, and grew especially with the ‘tailings’ left behind by the large, mostly foreign-owned mines.
Clearly, proper regulation of artisanal mining is not rocket science. How then could we get it so right on paper but get it so wrong in practice?
That effective keeping out of indigenes has meant that a substantial part of our gold has gone to the state and foreign interest, explaining why there is no part of Ghana that looks like we have been mining gold for over a century!
And, illegal mining that has hurt and is hurting the country, has thrived because successive governments have refused, failed or neglected to regulate. 
We can regulate, if we want to.
And in this century, the availability of chemical science to check pollution and then monitoring technology such as GPS and drone technology should put us ahead of the game.
With political will and properly targeted resources, our existing legal blue print should be easy to implement and enforce.
I am aware that the Minerals Commission has commenced frantic efforts to apply the law to complement the fight against Galamsey, and considerable resources are being directed to setting up the structures under the legal blueprint. 
But we can do better.
We should codify all the rules and regulations of artisanal mining into one standalone statute. 
Then, set up a division of the Minerals Commission headed by a Deputy CEO dedicated to artisanal mining alone.
Then, publicise the eligibility criteria and let people compete for licences. 
We need to get the public participation, buy-in and ownership that are critical for the industry to survive.
Properly regulated and supervised, artisanal mining could be very helpful to Ghana’s economy, providing jobs and income.
We have a world-beater of a legal blueprint. All we need is a world-beater of a government that is prepared to fully implement and properly resource that legal blueprint and its structures.
The ball is in the court of the government, its new minister and the new CEO of the Minerals Commission.
They can either fix this or join the list of governments and persons who have failed in this fight.
Every community or society trusts its leaders, be they political or social, to the extent that what these leaders tell the citizens are accepted, and their words are relied on.
If our leaders either renege on their promises or fail to fulfil their promises, then we can say without mincing words that they are either lying to us or deceiving us.
Sunyani, as a community has in the recent past suffered this politics of deceit and lies. 
These politicians will come to the town and make promises which they know will not be fulfilled or give a deadline that they know very well are not attainable. 
I am writing this piece against the backdrop of the recent announcement that the contractor working at the Sunyani airport has packed his equipment and left the site and the reason given for his action is that he has not been paid for the work done.
This is ridiculous because the people of the town were promised that the airport rehabilitation would be completed in May. 
The importance of this airport to the economic and social development of the town in particular and the region as a whole cannot be overemphasized.
Apart from making travelling to Accra and other parts of the country easy, it can help promote businesses in the region. 
Though the work being done at the airport was just rehabilitation and not the construction of an airport as is being done in other parts of the country.
The completion and subsequent opening of the airport project have been promised twice. 
The former Minister for Aviation, George Adda, came to Sunyani and promised the completion of the airport in a month. 
After the passing of the date, the Minister for Transport was in Sunyani, and like his colleague minister, also promised the opening of the project in May this year.
May passed only to hear that the contractors had packed his equipment and left the place. 
The question is, what do these politicians take the people of Sunyani for? Airports in other places like Wa and Ho were completed on schedule, so what have the people of Sunyani done to deserve this treatment?
All the well-meaning people of Sunyani should wake up because it’s time we told these politicians that what is good for people elsewhere is also good for the people of Sunyani.
This is not the only time the people of Sunyani have been deceived and lied to. 
In September last year, Vice President Dr, Bawumia was in Sunyani to cut the sod for the construction and rehabilitation of 29 kilometre Sino hydro Sunyani town roads. 
It’s been 9 months now and not even a foot of the road has been constructed.
Other projects whose sods were cut elsewhere around the same time are progressing. 
What do these politicians think of the people of Sunyani? 
The Berlin Top road has seen at least four sod-cutting ceremonies dating as far back as the President Kuffour era, and yet not even a foot has been constructed.
The road in front of the Sunyani Regional Hospital was left undone for many years despite the numerous appeals from the people. 
The night before President Nana Akuffo Addo visited the town last year, the road was asphalted in the night for the President to use it the next day. 
Do we need the President to visit us so that we construct our roads under floodlights?
There have been numerous projects in the town that have been abandoned, and I hope these politicians will not start working on them when the next elections are around the corner. 
Enough is enough, and I call on those who have the interest of the town at heart to wake up and start talking because Sunyani has been abandoned in terms of developmental projects. 
Can someone point to a project in the town that was started in the last ten years and has been completed?
The two political parties have taken the people of the town for a ride. One party thinks that whether they undertake any project in the town or not, they are going to win the constituency during elections, whilst the other party thinks that, no matter what they do, they will never win the Sunyani seat so why bother themselves. 
With this, the town has been the backyard of the two political parties.
Talking about the development of the town, all our political leaders from the Regional Ministers (current and past), Members of Parliament, and other political leaders from the region should bow their heads in shame. 
At a point in time, the Deputy Minister for Aviation was from the region, and nothing was done to this airport. 
We have an MP who has been representing the town for over a decade and yet he doesn’t care about the development of the town.
As for the MP, the least said about him the better because he doesn’t represent the town, but rather, he represents himself. Here is an MP who doesn’t even want to sit down with the people of the town to talk about the development of the town.
In my last open letter to him, I asked the question whether we have an MP, and I ask the same question now. 
Many attempts have been made by groups and individuals from the town to meet the MP to discuss developmental issues and he has not responded to any of such invitations. 
I hope by the next elections, he will not try to reach out to the various groups in the town including Nananom. 
We have a Chairman of the ruling party who hops from one radio/TV station to the next and yet he cares less about the development of his regional capital.
We have a Minister of State who has been a Municipal Chief Executive and a Regional Minister and yet the development of the town is not his concern. 
One would say that he is not the MP for Sunyani, that is true, but don’t forget that he has a business interest in the town so, if the town develops, it will affect him directly or otherwise.
The plain truth is that the politicians from the region these days are disappointing when it comes to the development of Sunyani and for that much the development of the region. 
Because our politicians are weak, the two major political parties have taken us for granted.
I am encouraging the people of Sunyani to put aside their political colors and speak on the development of the town. 
Our political leaders are not interested in the development of the town.
The traditional leaders are no better when it comes to the development of the town. 
They are not seen to be speaking on issues when it comes to the development of the town.
The future belongs to the youth so let us rise and put pressure to bear on our leaders. 
We should not wait till the next election when these people will pretend they are working in the interest of the town.
The people of Sunyani need an explanation as to why the contractor vacated the airport project after two ministers of state assured us that the airport would be finished within months. 
There shouldn’t be that usual silence that has characterized abandoned projects in the town.
This time we demand an explanation and such an explanation should be well thought of. 
I call on the Sunyani For Development Association, Sunyani Youth Development Association, Sunyani Stakeholders for Development Association, and other groups within the town to work together to find answers to this and many other issues.
A 30-year-old man, Raphael Tetteh, met his untimely death last Saturday on the Asamankese road when an unregistered motorbike he was travelling with collided with a Hyundai Grace minibus.
The driver, Tetteh Moses Kwabena aged, 42, was driving the Hyundai Grace mini bus with registration number AS 6539-Y on July 3, 2021, at about 1830 hours and was travelling from Accra to Asamankese in the Eastern region.
On reaching a section of the road near Pinora Juice factory at the outskirts of Asamankese, he collided with an oncoming unregistered Royal motorbike ridden by Raphael Tetteh aged about 30 who was coming from Asamankese direction.
According to the Police reports, the rider and some passengers sustained injuries and were rushed to Asamankese Government Hospital for treatment but the rider, Raphael Tetteh was pronounced dead shortly after arrival.
Police Sergeant Francis Gomado, Public Relations Officer of the Eastern Regional Police Command told the Ghana News Agency that the body had since been deposited at the Asamankese hospital mortuary for preservation and autopsy.
He said frantic efforts were also underway to tow the accident vehicle as the motorbike was being impounded at the Police station.
The Minister for Food and Agriculture, Dr. Owusu Afriyie Akoto, has announced government’s intention to make the Bono Region a “model” of commercial rice production in the country.
He said the Ministry with support from the government was importing modern agricultural machinery including tractors, threshers, and combine harvesters that would be supplied to the MoFA offices in the region.
The Sector Minister said this when he addressed Agricultural Extension Officers and input dealers at a meeting in Sunyani.
Accompanied by the key staff of the Ministry, Dr Akoto is embarking on a three-day working visit to the Bono, Bono East, and Ahafo Regions.
The visit would take the Minister and his team to acres of rice farms, poultry farms, tomato, and maize processing factories in the regions.
Dr. Akoto said the Ministry had already engaged 2,700 Agriculture Extension Officers nationwide, saying more of the officers would be engaged by the close of the year.
He said the nation could transform its agriculture sector if it was able to link farmers with the required technology to modernize the sector.
Describing the government’s Planting for Food and Jobs programme as unprecedented in the country, Dr Akoto said the Ministry was committed to strengthening the programme to enable more farmers to benefit.
On cashew production, the Minister said the sector had huge potential to widen the nation’s foreign income earnings and create more jobs for the youth.
He said the government had prioritized and made the sector attractive, hence the establishment of the Tree Crop Development Authority that would regulate the tree crop sector.
Dr. Akoto stressed the government’s determination to increase annual cashew production from 120,000 metric tons to one million metric tons to enhance the nation’s foreign exchange earnings.
He said the tree crop sector had huge economic potentials to push rapid socio-economic growth, saying the sector could fetch the nation GH¢15 billion annually.
Gunmen have abducted babies, nurses and security guards from a hospital in north-west Nigeria, the police say.
The exact number of those taken in the city of Zaria isn’t clear.
Local bandits carried out simultaneous attacks on a police station and the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Centre, before escaping into a forest.
A local government official said troops were stepping up efforts to find the victims.
At least seven people were killed in similar attacks by gunmen over the weekend in Kaduna state.
A pastor, Richard On­yekachukwu, has been arrested for allegedly faking his kidnapping.
On­yekachukwu, who was arrested by the Force Intelligence Response Team, led by Abba Kyari, was reported missing on June 16, 2021, by his brother, identified as Prosper.
Prosper claimed that the kidnappers demanded a huge amount of money before he could be set free, but their theory seemed suspicious.
The police arrested his wife, Mary, and during interrogations, she confessed that her husband went for a business trip adding that she saw her husband about a week ago but that his family members thought he had been in captivity at the kidnappers’ camp for three weeks.
She revealed that the entire saga was a planned and orchestrated self-kidnap. 
She confessed that her husband brought the idea and that she played along because she was taught to be submissive to her husband in every situation.
According to her, her husband had finan­cial challenges and that he was looking for a way to raise money to pay off the loans he collected.
Armed with all this information, the police laid an ambush for which led to his arrest the next day.
Following his arrest, Pastor Richard made a confessional statement that also led the police to arrest his friend, Enoch, who posed as one of the kidnappers.
“I am a pastor and contractor. I had a big church, but the roof was blown away by the wind. 
I took some loans to assist the businesses that I was doing to support the ministry. It was about N600K.
Due to this, I found myself in financial challenges. 
At the same time, paying the loan became difficult. 
I made some losses in my poultry business and the Covid-19 pandemic did not help matters.
“The banks were after me and I didn’t know what to do. 
I was thinking of getting money from my younger brother, Prosper, a rich civil servant, to offset the loan be­fore I was dragged to court. 
It wasn’t easy; that was why the thought of self-kidnap came to me. 
I don’t know why I decided to use that strategy,” he said.
A Bole Magistrate Court presided over by Andrew Prince Cudjo, has sentenced a 30-year-old Herder, Issah Barugojo to four years in imprisonment for kidnapping two families in North and West Gonja Districts in the Savannah Region.
Three other compliance who are said to be on the run, are being persuaded by the Savannah Regional Police Command from their hideouts.
The accused person, Issah Barugojo who first pleaded guilty to the crime of kidnapping, said he was under the influence of alcohol and needed money.
This, he claims, led to his predicament but his plea was ignored by the Magistrate and was sentenced to 48 months behind bars.
The prosecutor of the case, Inspector Joseph Botwe told the court that, “on Friday 11/06/21 two victims Alhaji Nyandiya and Alhaji Macho all residents of Busunu were travelling from Daboya-Abotape, a Fulani community on the Daboya Busunu road when some unknown persons emerged from the bush and kidnapped them.
The kidnappers used the victim’s phones to call their families and demanded ¢170,000 and ¢20,000 respectively, but the families pleaded with the Kidnappers to reduce the said amount to 130,000″.
Inspector Joseph Botwe added that “the families were able to gather the said amount and were ready to pay on Monday 14-06-21 when a team of police officers rescued them and were able to arrest Issah Barugojo one of the suspects.”
Meanwhile, the current incident adds to the seeming rise in kidnapping cases involving herdsmen in the Savannah Region.
It first started from Buipe in the Central District then to Salaga in the East Gonja and now, Damongo and Daboya in the West and North Gonja Districts in the region.
Acting Public Relations Officer for the Savannah Regional Police Command, Inspector Adjeikum Owusu told JoyNews that the sentencing of Issah Barugojo will go a long way to deter other potential kidnappers and reduce crime rate in the area.
A 31-year-old English tutor at the Ghana National College in Cape Coast, Sheila Afful met her untimely death when she was struck by a car at the school’s entrance.
She died on the spot.
The incident happened on Wednesday at about 11 am when the deceased was on her way to classes.
The body of the deceased has since been deposited at the Cape Coast Teaching Hospital morgue.
According to eyewitnesses, the driver, who is a female Police constable stationed at Twifo-Praso, was descending the hills of the school but lost control of the vehicle and landed on the deceased at the pedestrian path of the school’s gate after the car somersaulted several times.
The vehicle in the process slammed into a motorcycle belonging to a security officer parked at the gate.
According to sources, the Police constable had gone to the school to visit her brother who is a student.
The eye witness said the Police MTTD towed the vehicle away, after the accident.
A family member of the deceased who pleaded anonymity described the deceased as a smart, intelligent, promising and determined woman who was pursuing her PhD programme at the University of Cape Coast.
The Central Regional Public Relations Officer of the Ghana Police Service, DSP Mrs Irene Serwaah Oppong who confirmed the story said investigations have begun.
The presiding judge and the two suspects involved in the gruesome murder of 10-year-old Ishmael Mensah failed to appear in court today, June 2, 2021.
Ishmael was murdered by two teenagers, Felix Nyarko,16 and Nicholas Kene, 18 who have been handed over to the police to assist in investigations. 
The sad incident happened at Kasoa Lamptey Mills in the Awutu Senya East Municipality in the Central Region on April 3, 2021.
The suspects, giving the rationale behind their actions, told the police a fetish priest in the Volta Region had asked them to bring a body part for money. 
According to the suspects, they had initially wanted to kidnap the boy, demand ¢5,000 ransom from his family before going ahead to kill him and get the needed body part for the spiritualist.
The two, per the police charge sheet, admitted that they killed the 10-year-old Ishmael by hitting a club against his neck.
The family’s spokesperson, Samed Akalilu, in an interaction with the press revealed that today is the second time the presiding judge has been absent without explanation.
According to Mr Akalilu, the family is disappointed about the pace of the trial and urged the Attorney-General (A-G) to attach some importance to the case to ensure justice is served.
“We have been brooding over these uncertainties, disappointment and systemic failures, as I speak, from here we are going to have a family meeting and do a lot of introspections.
“We feel that there’s something untold, there’s something mystical that the family does not understand. 
And so for us the mere fact that the case is being delayed just because the Attorney General (AG) is not advising… the police have told us that advice from the AG is not available, to the extent that the judge is not available and for about 4 weeks now no judge has been able to move the case further,” he added.
Mr Akalilu further added that the family will make sure justice is served.
“We are going to make sure that the various option that is available to us the family is going to meet. Justice delayed is justice denied as others also say”.
The woes of a former Court Registrar who was part of some 105 judicial staff caught on camera receiving bribes by investigative journalist, Anas Aremeyaw Anas, is deepening by the day.
The former staff was implicated by the Judicial Service over his failure to account for some GH¢6,430.00.
According to the 2017 report of the Auditor General, the former Registrar at Offinso District Court, Abdallah Yahaya Yeddor, between July and December 2015, understated entries into the court deposits cash book by GH¢4,620.00.
Similarly, between January 2016 and April 2017, the officer collected total revenue of GH¢22,998.50 but paid GH¢21,188.50 into the Judicial Service bank account, leaving a difference of GH¢1,810.00.
The Auditor-General said the conduct of the former Registrar is in breach of “Regulation 24(1 and 3) of the Financial Administration Regulations, 2004, which states among others that, any amount of money paid to the government shall be paid within 48 hours into the appropriate public fund account and that a contravention of the above regulations constitutes a breach of financial discipline”.
Appearing before the Public Accounts Committee of Parliament, the Deputy Director of Finance at Judicial Service, Charles Idan said the former Registrar was dismissed from the Judicial Service after he was implicated by a committee set up by the former Chief Justice, Georgina Theodora Wood but failed to pay the unaccounted monies.
He however told the committee that the Judicial Service is in the process of writing to the Social Security and National Insurance Trust ( SSNIT) to use part of Mr. Abdallah Yahaya Yeddor’s entitlements to defray the monies he failed to account for.
But a Member of the Committee who doubles as MP for South Dayi, Rockson Nelson Dafeamekpor was unhappy that the Judicial Service failed to prosecute the former Registrar.
But the Judicial Service Secretary, Justice Cynthia Pamela Addo said the issue will be dealt with immediately she gets to the office.
The Central Regional Minister, Mrs. Justina Marigold Assan has called on traditional leaders to collaborate with stakeholders in reducing the spate of teen pregnancies in the region.
She said a concerted and decisive approach to control the surging menace in the region should be adopted as a matter of urgency to help protect girls to achieve their prospective ambitions.
The Minister made the appeal when she paid separate courtesy calls on the three paramount chiefs in the Abura-Asebu-Kwamankese (AAK) District of the Central Region to officially introduce herself and solicit support in transforming the Region.
She stated that parents, traditional and religious leaders must play a lead role in the campaign against teenage pregnancies in local communities to ensure the girls attain their full potentials.
The Minister said the government is ready to help in curbing the menace and, therefore, called for continuous support from opinion leaders and stakeholders in the Region.
She advised parents to monitor the movements of their daughters and endeavour to provide them with their basic needs.
Mrs Assan said teenage pregnancy impeded the growth and development of girls and prevented them from reaching their full potentials.
Professor Okatakyie Amenfi VII, the Omahene of Asebu Traditional Area, pledged his unwavering support to the Minister’s efforts to transform the Region.
“Asebu State is behind you, therefore, call on us anytime you need anything or advice to move the Region forward.“
He called on the government to provide the Asebu State with basic needs such as electricity.
Okakaber Idun Andoh X, the Omanhene of Kwamankese Traditional Area, called on the Ghana Police Service (GPS) to increase security in the area to help weed out drug abuse and alcoholism that was destroying the youth.
He expressed concern about a gang of wee smokers, who were grooming and training the younger ones in the area, and described it as ‘very disturbing’ and called for an immediate halt of their activities.
Okakaber Andoh X appealed to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to come to their aid as illegal sand winning activities were destroying their farm lands.
He also urged the government to post more health workers to the area to support effective health care delivery.
At the Palace of Nana Nkwefii VIIII, who is the Acting President of  Abura Traditional Area, he appealed to Assembly Members of the AAK District Assembly to set aside their political differences and elect a Presiding Member to help propel the development of the district.
He called on the Minister to intervene for the district to get the needed funds to support the Assembly in executing its work.
Pregnant Nana (Not her real name) is rushed to the Maternity Unit of the 37 Military Hospital in labour.
She is a National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) subscriber, meaning she did not have to pay for anything under the Free Maternal Healthcare policy but what turned up was a total cash-and-carry affair as she paid for covered services before being provided the needed healthcare upon arrival at the hospital.  
Nana and her husband, a farmworker, lacked the finances to pay for the bills so every bill given to them was followed by phone calls to relatives and friends to beg for money.
After spending over GH₵3,000.00 already on bills, the couple is hit with the tragic news: their newborn could not survive. 
As if that was not enough, the grieving parents were then hit with another news of the body having to be detained till a GHc1,067.14 bill for staying in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) prior to the death, is completely cleared, before a death certificate and clearance would be issued for the release of the corpse.
The NICU bill was not the end of their trauma, an additional bill awaited them at the mortuary. 
While they grieved over their loss, they were, again, confronted with where to find the financial help to settle the NICU and mortuary bills. 
The compounded bad news left the couple numb.
Mrs Addo-Cobbiah, Deputy Chief Executive, Operations, National Health Insurance Authority (NHIA), described this situation as totally wrong and unlawful.
Corruption Watch contacted the 37 Military Hospital for comments but as at the time of filing this report they had not granted an interview six weeks after submitting a request for an interview
Nana’s case is just one of several ordeals pregnant women and their partners go through in our government hospitals despite being covered by NHIS. C
orruption Watch investigator, Francisca Enchill goes undercover, to expose the agony of pregnant women in hospitals, a spectacle of pregnant women being confronted with the option of paying cash before accessing the otherwise free healthcare under the Free Maternal Healthcare policy or refuse to pay and die.
This is in spite of the existence of the NHIS that states clearly that Maternal Healthcare (MHC) is absolutely free, including even abortion complications.
Corruption Watch uncovered this Pay or Die phenomenon in investigations conducted at the 37 Military Hospital, Mamprobi Hospital, popularly known as Mamprobi Polyclinic and Maamobi General Hospital, popularly known as Maamobi Polyclinic.
The investigation found gross abuse of the purpose for the introduction of the Free Maternal Healthcare Policy. It was found that health facilities have set their own rules to extort money from pregnant women during Antenatal, Delivery and Postnatal care.
Some of these illegal payments that put unnecessary impediments on access to maternal healthcare have somehow been made official, hence, pregnant women are directed to make payment at the bank.
The investigation also found that health workers charge and directly received payments without issuing receipts for charges which are supposed to be free.
Our investigation established that Free Maternal Healthcare is currently only ‘on paper’ but practically, it is non-existent in all the facilities captured in this investigation although hospitals make claims for services rendered under free maternal healthcare and those claims are paid for by the NHIS.
Although the NHIS policy pays higher claims to the referral hospitals than those paid to the Polyclinics and general hospitals, it was established that at the referral hospitals, pregnant women are unlawfully charged higher amounts for the same services provided by the Polyclinics.
Dr Chris Opoku Fofie, Head of Safe Motherhood Program at the Family Health Division of the GHS said all health facilities under the GHS run scans for free.
However, this investigation established a contrary fact. Many pregnant women were unaware of their entitlements under the FMHC policy. 
It also found that even when pregnant women, who were aware of their entitlements, put it to health workers and insist on their rights, these workers denied flatly that antenatal services are free.
At the 37 Military Hospital, Pregnant women are denied the benefit of free scan. A scan costs Ghc100.00 at this facility.
37 Military Hospital: It was discovered that the list of laboratory tests given to pregnant women cost Ghc250 at the laboratory of 37 Military Hospital. 
Other tests like Full Blood Count cost Ghc35.
Corruption Watch contacted the 37 Military Hospital for comments but as at the time of filing this report, they had not granted an interview. 
Six weeks after submitting a request for an interview.
Pregnant women, who develop complications during the course of pregnancy at the 37 Military Hospital, are made to pay for every drug, lab tests and scans on a cash-and-carry basis. 
What is more, if pregnant women are detained for further medical observation, they are charged Ghc60 as admission fee for each day spent under medical observation.
Despite having paid for every service already, during discharge, the bill is above Ghc1,000.00 and can increase depending on the number of days spent on admission.
The delivery day is the most anxious day in the nine-month-journey of a pregnant woman. 
Not every pregnant woman that enters the delivery room is lucky to make it alive. 
Not every baby makes it alive and not every baby who is born safely, survives the first few days. 
Hence, the moment labour starts, it is all prayer for families for the safety of mother and child.
This stage is, however, a bumper revenue collection day for health facilities as they issue killer bills with no empathy. 
Partners or sometimes friends and family are traumatized with the guilt of failing to make timely payments for drugs and tests.
Women, who are not able to pay their bills, are detained until the amount is raised by their family or a philanthropist.
Delivery at the 37 Military hospital makes no room for the poor. 
The Maternity Unit of this hospital is run like a private health facility, with comparatively, very high charges. Every single medication, materials or service needed for delivery is purchased by patients and their families on a cash-and-carry basis.
It was also found that despite having a pharmacy inside the Maternity Unit where medicine could be dispensed when needed, pregnant women are asked to buy medical supplies even when its need is not yet required, sometimes leading to some women returning home with unused medical supplies like infusion when they are discharged from the hospital.
Despite being made to buy everything and pay for every service in a cash-and-carry manner, the medical bill issued to patients during discharge is very high with the lowest being above Ghc1,000 
Although the FMHC policy requires hospitals to submit all bills as claims to the NHIS without billing the patient any amount directly, 37 Military Hospital does the contrary. 
They bill pregnant women for even admission and consultation at the Maternity Unit. 
Meanwhile, poor people referred to this hospital, visit the facility hoping to depend on their FMHC entitlements.
According to the FMHC policy, NHIS covers the bill 100%. However, 37 Military Hospital practices the contrary. 
The bill they issue claims NHIS only covers a portion of the bill and the patient pays the rest.
37 Military Hospital issues bills ranging from Ghc800-Ghc1,000 for women who have Spontaneous Vaginal Delivery. 
This amount goes higher depending on the number of days the patient spends on admission as GHc60 is added automatically each day as admission fee. 
Out of this amount, the hospital’s bill states that NHIS covers GHc159.70 and the patient pays the rest.
The NHIS described this as unlawful.
37 Military Hospital charges between GHc2,000 to Ghc5,000 for Caesarean Section. 
The longer you stay under medical observation, the higher the bill. 
According to information on the bill issued at the hospital, NHIS covers only GHc543.20 of the total bill.
The periodic postnatal care, commonly referred to as Weighing, is relatively completely free at the 37 Military Hospital. 
However, Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) service, is not free.
At the 37 Military Hospital, newborns are charged a daily admission fee of Ghc50. 
The number of days spent in the NICU determines the magnitude of the bill given to parents.
At the 37 Military Hospital, babies who spend up to three days in the NICU are billed Ghc 1,064.17. 
According to information on the bill of the hospital, NHIS covers GHc565.74 of the total cost, while the family pays the rest.
This amount has an automatic GHc50 increment for each additional day spent at the NICU.
This was the only hospital amongst those we investigated that required pregnant women to spend up to GH¢96.00 even before being accepted to register for antenatal service.
As part of the registration expenses, nurses at the Mamprobi Hospital were also found directing pregnant women on their first visit to their welfare shop to purchase a mandatory package. 
This mandatory package contained some items needed only on the day of delivery but pregnant women were made to buy them at GH¢26.00 even before being registered and given their maternal health record book to begin antenatal.
This package is given to the Welfare Shop by the nurses to be sold to pregnant women.
Dr. Charlotte Cato, Specialist in charge of Mamprobi Hospital, denied that the facility makes any demand before allowing pregnant women to access antenatal care. 
However, Corruption Watch’s investigation found this claim by Dr. Cato to be false.
The Mamprobi Hospital, officially charges pregnant women GH¢35.00 for a scan. 
This payment is made as many times as a scan is required.
One other financially draining unique policy of the facility was that scans done in facilities outside the Mamprobi Hospital were not accepted by the health workers. 
Pregnant women, who run scans before visiting the facility to avoid the queue, are made to pay for a new scan even if the first scan done outside was done the same day.
Despite Corruption Watch establishing that Mamprobi Hospital charges NHIS holders GH¢35.00 for scan, Dr. Charlotte Cato, the Specialist in charge of the hospital, denied the charges are effected at the facility. 
According to her, the facility only charged pregnant women who do not have NHIS cover GH¢30.00 but the service is at no cost for NHIS subscribers.
Laboratory test                  
At the Mamprobi hospital, pregnant women are denied access to free laboratory tests as well, the first group tests are divided into two. 
First half cost each pregnant woman Ghc30. 
The other half of the test costs Ghc20 for NHIS holders. 
Meanwhile all these tests are covered under the FMHC policy.
According to the Head of the hospital, Dr. Charlotte Cato, these tests are covered by NHIS in her facility so pregnant women enjoy them for free, but Corruption Watch’s independent investigation established that the hospital charges for these tests. 
At this facility, antenatal drugs are free. The drugs are actually already packaged with a stationed staff right at the antenatal unit disbursing them. Vitamin C was, however, paid for.
At the Maamobi General Hospital, pregnant women were charged GH¢10.00 at the consultation room on a first visit. 
This, the nurses claimed, covers service delivery and some medical supplies.
At this facility, pregnant women were officially charged GH¢ 40 for a scan. 
This amount is paid as many times as a scan is required. 
Edem Datsomor, Principal Nursing Officer of the Maamobi General Hospital, who refused to grant a video or audio interview said, scan was not part of the FMHC entitlements in their hospital. 
Mrs. Vivian Addo-Cobbiah, Deputy Chief Executive, Operations at NHIA, said NHIA pays for scans through the claims.
Dr Chris Fofie said that facilities are operating according to the rules governing the FMHC policy by offering pregnant women a completely free laboratory service.
However, this investigation established that laboratory tests are not free for pregnant women in any of the facilities investigated.
At the Maamobi General Hospital, the first main laboratory tests cost Ghc50. 
Other tests done in the course of pregnancy were equally not free.
During another test at this hospital, the laboratory technician took the request form, took the samples for the test and charged Ghc35 and received payment directly from the pregnant woman inside the lab without issuing a receipt.
Edem Datsomor, the Principal Nursing Officer of the facility on behalf of the facility said the amount paid by NHIS as antenatal cover per visit is not enough to cover laboratory tests although their supervising institution, GHS supports NHIA’s insistence that this service is free.
She, however, said the hospital does not permit direct payments to staff for any service delivered apart from the bank, hence, any staff caught doing that will be taken through a disciplinary process for punitive action to be applied. 
At this hospital, the drugs that are available are paid for and pregnant women are referred to buy the rest from private pharmacies on the grounds of unavailability.

Drugs, scans and lab tests during delivery, including blood, is paid for on a Cash-and-carry basis. 
Also, parts of the charges for delivery by CS were Ward fee, CS procedure, Suture, discharge, among others, costing around GHc 1,200 as official charges of the hospital, that are accompanied by official receipts aside extra cost incurred from drugs and tests requested by the hospital, which are run in private facilities outside the hospital.
NHIS described this as unlawful and unfair as well.
NHIS described this practice also as unlawful and gives a breakdown of what the practice should be.
Mrs Vivian Addo-Cobbiah, Deputy Chief Executive, Operations at NHIA said facility heads claiming ignorance about the benefits are not being sincere.
However, this investigation established that although all the health facilities submit their claims to NHIS for payment, pregnant women are charged for every free service rendered at their facilities.
Pregnant women are expected to budget up to Ghc500 for antenatal expenses in normal pregnancy and about Ghc2,000 or more for antenatal expenses during pregnancy complications.
Mrs Vivian Addo-Cobbiah described these as barriers that prevent the poor from accessing antenatal care, defeating the purpose for which the policy was introduced.
According to Mrs. Addo-Cobbiah all laboratory tests required in the course of pregnancy are all fully covered by NHIS, hence, pregnant women should not pay any amount of money for that service.
Although pregnant women are entitled to free antenatal drugs, some hospitals charge for the drugs, some claim unavailability of some drugs and direct patients to buy them outside and some prescribe drugs that are not on the list of NHIS approved drugs, hence requiring patients to pay to get the drugs.
The NHIS covers costs associated with a newborn. 
This cover includes any care given to the baby right after birth if admitted at the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) and the normal postnatal visits/weighing till the baby is three months old. 
At three months, the baby then needs his/her own separate NHIS cover.