DP Ruto finally shares event with President Uhuru
After a lengthy absence from functions presided over by President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto has finally showed up for one - the national prayer breakfast'.
Ruto is attending the May 27 prayer breakfast event at Parliament Buildings among a host of other national leaders.
This is the third time this year the two are attending the same event after the burial of former Cabinet Minister Simeon Nyachae on February 15 and a Cabinet meeting 10 days later.
Prayer Organising Committee Co-chair Dan Maanzo on Tuesday while confirming Ruto’s attendance downplayed the frosty relationship between the President and his deputy, adding that the event provided an opportunity for leaders to reconcile.
“We hope that the prayers will provide a platform for "the leaders to reach out to each other and reconcile,” said the MaKueni MP.
On February 5, the DP skipped the ceremony to commemorate the first anniversary of the death of former President Daniel Toroitich arap Moi despite his name being on the programme.
Their fallout was amplified in the months of March and April when Ruto skipped various Covid-19 addresses by President Kenyatta.
On May 4, Ruto skipped the reception of Tanzania’s President Samia Suluhu at State House, Nairobi, with his aides saying he was not invited.
Emmanuel Tallam, the Communications Director at the DP’s Office, told the media that Ruto followed the televised proceedings from his Karen Residence Office.
Ruto also skipped this year’s Labour Day celebrations at State House, Nairobi which was attended by Cotu boss Francis Atwoli and Labour Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui.
“We honour and celebrate the extraordinary sacrifices that workers, households and enterprises continue to make to advance our country’s transformation agenda amid the devastating surge in the Covid-19 pandemic,” the DP tweeted on May 1.
According to the Constitution, Ruto is the principal assistant of the president and should attend all gazetted State functions at which the only speakers are the President, him, the host governor and sometimes Raila.
Since March 2018, when President Kenyatta shook hands with ODM leader Raila Odinga, and more so 2020 and 2021, the DP has been isolated in his own government, making him an outsider in decision-making and key meetings.
He has however attributed this isolation to an attempt by President Kenyatta’s inner circle to lock him out of the Head of State’s 2022 succession plan.
“If President Kenyatta now trusts other people and consults more with Raila, I have taken it with grace. The style changed, and it is the prerogative of the President being the boss,” Ruto said during a recent interview with Citizen TV.
Today’s event whose theme is a “Hopeful Future” brings together leaders from all the arms of the Government and across the political divide when the country is in the middle of a pandemic.
The prayer meeting is being attended both virtually and physically.
The event that takes place on the last Thursday of May each year, is hosted by Speakers of the bicameral parliament Justin Muturi and Kenneth Lusaka and Chaired by Senate Majority Leader Samuel Poghisio, co-chaired by Maanzo.
Chief Justice Martha Koome, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka are also in attendance.
The NPB was first held in 2003 after former President Mwai Kibaki took office with its primary purpose being to meet, engage, interact and pray for the nation in the company of fellow leaders from all sectors of society.
Man seeks court's intervention to clear confusion over three dates of birth
Age is just but a number, the saying goes. 
But that is not always true for everyone. One such person is Francis Paul Kerre whose identification documents show three different ages.
Tired of the tribulations the discrepancies in his age have brought him, Kerre has moved to court to have the matter resolved once and for all.
His birth certificate and national ID show he is 70, KRA Pin Certificate 66 and his passport 60 years.
Kerre now wants these details aligned to give him a peace of mind and spare him the many questions he sometimes has to answer.
He says an earlier plea to the registrar to rectify the anomaly did not bear fruit.
He contends that the person who prepared his birth certificate entered the wrong birth date. 
Court documents read that he has since confirmed the year he was born.
Kerre says he was born on October 15, 1954. 
This is the date in his KRA Pin certificate, which means he is 66.
The petitioner avers that the error in the birth certificate was caused by the initial entry in his birth certificate when he was born and he has since confirmed his correct date of birth. 
The petitioner seeks court’s intervention to rectify his birth certificate and have the correct date of birth entered in the register and his birth certificate,” Kerre’s court papers read in part.
Teenage pregnancy, early marriages to blame for Ugenya school dropout cases
The Ministry of Education has blamed teenage pregnancies and early marriages for rising cases of school dropouts in Ugenya, Siaya County. 
County Director of Education Nelson Sifuna said there are also reports of children dropping out of school for bodaboda business while others cross to Uganda through Busia border in search of jobs.
Sifuna urged locals to take advantage of the free primary education programme despite other challenges to ensure all children of school-going age attend school.
"But we also understand that life at home has been difficult especially for the orphans who have to provide for themselves," said Sifuna.
He said most of those who drop out of school said they did not have uniforms while some said they had to fend for their siblings or themselves.
Sifuna challenged parents and guardians to monitor school-going children so that they don't engage in negative social activities that could distract them from school.
“Most of the children also live with their grandparents and you know they are never strict with their grandchildren who get lots of freedom and end up engaging in negative social activities," he said.
Between 2018 to 2020 about 53 pupils dropped out of school while another 39 students dropped out of Secondary schools in Ugenya sub-county, Siaya County.
Meanwhile, Daniel Odhiambo, a local philanthropist, has donated over 200 school uniforms to needy pupils.
Odhiambo said he made the donation after receiving complaints from local widows and grandmothers taking care of orphans that they could not meet the pupils’ needs because of the tough economic situation in the country.
He said some school-going children from needy backgrounds, mostly orphans, have dropped out of school due to lack of school uniform.
"Most of them especially girls feel shy when they don’t have uniforms or have torn ones and end up dropping out of school. That is why I sponsored them to stay in school," he said.
The ministry has now resorted to sensitisation in all forums, use of role models to offer talks to the school-going children.
Odhiambo encouraged former students to visit their schools, especially in the villages to help the ministry fight school dropout.
He lauded the county government for initiating adopt a school programme that has been distributing masks and sanitisers in local schools.
"We have taken advantage of the programme to encourage alumnus to visit their former schools and offer talks," he added.
Drama in Migori, widow evicted from land by sister-in-law
Standing on her husband’s grave, Felister Wabwire wails uncontrollably as police officers plead with her to leave.
The police are here to execute an eviction order on the widow from the land she claims was bought by her late husband, Fedelis Wabwire, in Oruba Keyo Village, Migori County, 25 years ago.
The eviction followed Senior Principal Magistrate Johnstone Munguti's order obtained by the widow’s sister-in-law, Nekesa Mukhongo.
 Nekesa claims the land belongs to her and that her mother and two brothers were buried on it.
“I have stayed here for over 25 years and gave birth to four children with my late husband who died three years ago,” Felister said.
She said it was one year ago when her sister-in-law, Nekesa, together with her husband came and claimed they owned the land.
“I don’t know where to go with my children and I am requesting the government to come to my aid,” she said.
The widow’s son Julius Fedelis Wabwire said her mother and the entire family were evicted from the land by police officers in the morning and had nowhere to go.
But Nekesa told The Standard Felistas had separated with her late husband and only came back after he died and took over the land.
My brother’s wife was convinced by her children to come back to her home and continue settling here.
It’s me together with my husband who bought the land for my late mother, the land belongs to me,” she said.
In the ruling in which the eviction order is said to have been issued, the court noted that Felistas had no Kenyan identification papers and directed police to investigate her nationality.
Three fishermen arrested after death of colleague in Lake Victoria
hree fishermen have been arrested in Homa Bay County in connection with the death of their colleague.
The fishermen who hail from Wadiang’a beach in Suba sub-county were arrested Monday morning and detained at Sindo police post.
Dancun Omondi alias Nelly met his death on Saturday night while in the company of his colleagues who were on a fishing expedition.
The four fishermen had left Wadiang’a beach and went fishing near Takawiri Island in the neighboring Suba North sub-county.
According to the Secretary of Wadiang’a Beach Management Unit Collins Ochieng’, Omondi disagreed with one of the three fishermen and ended up fighting.
“The fishermen said Omondi slipped into the lake while exchanging blows with the colleague,” said Ochieng’, adding that the fishermen went into the lake when they were drunk.
“I think they were acting under the influence of alcohol which is rampant in our beaches,” Ochieng’ said.
Omondi’s body is yet to be retrieved.
Suba Sub-county Police Commander Antony Njeru said the three men have been detained as police probe the matter.
“We don’t know whether they killed him and dumped his body in the lake or the fisherman drowned after slipping from the boat as they say,” Njeru said.
Njeru said he will hand the suspects to his colleagues in the Mbita Sub-county where the incident occurred.
Man in trouble for defiling teenage girls in his house
Security officers in Homa Bay County have rescued two schoolgirls from a man who allegedly has been defiling them for the last month.
The 15-year-old girls were rescued from a house at Kadongo trading center, Kowidi Sub-location in Rachuonyo East Sub-county on Saturday.
The minors hail from Nyakach sub-county and disappeared from their homes a month ago.
One of the girls sat her 2020 Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCSE) and got 288 marks at a primary school in Kisumu County and another one is a Standard Seven pupil.
The children were found in a carpenter's house and were identified by a Nyakach resident who had gone to Kadongo, who then informed family members.
Kowidi assistant chief Michael Aoro rushed to the scene and rescued the minors.
“The incident is strange because the man has been defiling the girls in his house. One of them is telling us that she used to sleep in a chair while the other was sleeping in the man's bed,” Aoro said.
"But her statement does not make sense because she is not telling us the reason why she left home and resorted to sleeping in a chair inside a house that doesn’t belong to her relative,” he added.
The administrator took the minors to Othoro Police Station where police interrogated them further before they underwent medical tests at Othoro Hospital.
Police are still looking for the man who escaped during the raid.
“The man disappeared after realising that the minors’ family members were in his house,” Aoro said, adding that they will ensure he is arrested.
He urged parents to take care of their children to prevent such incidents.
Let parents be keen in monitoring movements of their children to enhance their safety. 
Defilement is a serious offence,” he added.
Magoha challenges Homa Bay-based varsity to prioritise fish production
Education Cabinet Secretary Prof George Magoha has told Tom Mboya University College management to prioritise research on fish production and how to end perennial water shortage in Homa Bay County.
The university which is the first higher learning institution in the county was opened in Homa Bay town in 2016. It currently operates as a constituent college of Maseno University.
Prof Magoha, who was accompanied by Homa Bay Deputy County Commissioner Jude Wasonga, Homa Bay County Director of Education Fredrick Kiiru, Maseno University Vice-Chancellor Prof Julius Nyabundi and Tom Mboya Principal Prof Charles Ochola, said the purpose of a university is to undertake research for ending problems facing the society.
“Homa Bay County is known for water shortage but the work of a university is to solve societal problems.
 Let this university focus on water and do research which can end water shortage in Homa Bay,” said Prof Magoha.
Magoha who spoke on Friday when he supervised the construction of a Sh300 million storey building that will be used for classes and laboratories in the university, said the young university can survive well if it focuses on fish production.
He argued that the community in which the university operates recognises fish as their best diet hence investing in research aimed at producing fish will make it prosper.
I am impressed by the infrastructural development going on in this university.
“However, it must invest in research on fish production for it to survive,” he added.
The CS said the university has the capability to be the chief producer of fish in Homa Bay County as part of both academic and economic development.
“We don’t expect lecturers of this university to depend on fish got from elsewhere. Focus on fish production too,” Magoha said.
Tom Mboya is currently undertaking a number of infrastructural development projects to enable it to acquire a charter so that it becomes a fully-fledged university. 
However, it has not been established when it will acquire the charter. 
It has 3000 students pursuing various courses.
The university started with agriculture, business and education courses.
The university was built at the Homa Bay Farmers Training Centre (FTC) which used to train farmers on good farming practices.
Employment court reinstates impeached official until case is determined
The High Court has granted reprieve to impeached Homa Bay County Health executive Prof Richard Muga.
Prof Muga was impeached by Homa Bay MCAs on May 12 over alleged abuse of office and gross violation of the Constitution.
County Assembly Deputy Speaker Ellyas Orondo tabled a motion that led to impeachment of the Health executive.
Muga later filed a petition at the Employment and Labour Relations Court in Kisumu challenging the MCAs’ action that was intended to remove him from office.
In the case, Muga sued Homa Bay County Assembly and Governor Cyprian Awiti.
Justice Stephen Radido yesterday ruled that Muga should continue serving as Health executive until the case is heard and determined.
“This court grants conservatory orders staying the whole of the respondent’s action of removing the petitioner from the position of CECM for health pending hearing and determination of the application and petition filed,” Justice Radido ordered.
The County Assembly and Awiti were directed to file and serve their submissions before August 5. 
Muga was also told to file and serve any further affidavit together with submissions on or before June 21. The judgement will be delivered on October 27.
Girl, 17, disappears in puzzling circumstances on first day of Term 3
A17-year-old girl from Oyugis in Homa Bay County has disappeared from home in unclear circumstances.
Eunice Awino, a student of Atemo Mixed Secondary School, vanished from home on May 10; the first day of Term Three studies in the adjusted 2020 academic calendar.
On the said-date, the teenager’s mother, Rael Akinyi, says she went to her bedroom at 6am, and found Awino still asleep.
Waking up late was uncharacteristic of the teenager, the mother said.
Her school is quite far from where we stay.
“On normal days, she usually leaves earlier than 6am,” Akinyi told The Standard.
When she asked the teenager why she hadn’t left for school yet, Awino allegedly told her she hadn’t shaved her head, and she would, therefore, be ordered to return home upon reporting to school.
“She further said that no serious learning takes place on Day One of school resumption,” said Akinyi.
The distressed mother said she, consequently, allowed the girl to stay home as she (Awino) prepared to report to school the following day; May 11.
Akinyi, thereafter, left for Oyugis Town, where she was scheduled to meet a staffer attached to the registration of births office so that she could process Awino’s birth certificate, ahead of KCSE exam enrolment.
When the mother-of-ten returned home in the afternoon, her daughter, who is the lastborn, was not around. 
Her school bag was also missing.
Her books, however, had been stashed in a sack and placed at a corner in the living room.
The money Akinyi had left Awino for food was still on a stool, the girl’s mother said.
Neighbours told Akinyi that they saw the teenager leaving home on a boda boda at noon on May 10.
“I, immediately, inquired from all my relatives who live nearby whether Awino had visited them, but they responded in the negation,” said Akinyi.
Later that day, at around 9pm, Awino called her mother using an anonymous contact, and informed her that she was housed by a middle-aged woman in Kisii, and that Akinyi shouldn’t worry about her.
The distraught parent reported the happenings to her daughter’s school the following day before filing a missing person’s report at Oriwo Police Station.
Almost two weeks later, Awino is yet to be found.
“The only thing I know is that she was last spotted in Nyamira Market. My attempts to trace her have been futile. I hope we find her safe.”
Atemo Mixed Secondary School principal, Philip Ayoo, confirmed to The Standard that the minor is a student at the institution.
She (Awino) has never had any disciplinary problems.
We are shocked to learn that she went missing from home,” said Ayoo.
Rusana's candidature causes political heat as race to succeed Obado intensifies
he entry of Migori County Secretary into the race to succeed Governor Okoth Obado appears to have rattled seasoned politicians who have accused him of using elders to endorse his candidature.
Christopher Rusana's endorsement by Suba Community elders has seen other aspirants cry foul, saying the decision of the elders who attended the May 3, meeting in Kisii was compromised.
The aspirants led by Migori Woman Rep Pamela Odhiambo have vowed never to step down.
Odhiambo, businessman Philip Mwabe, former Migori MP John Pesa, former Mombasa executive Seth Odongo and businessman Owiso Ngao have rubbished the endorsement, saying the process was unfair and that the outcome was influenced.
The exercise was conducted by elders led by Pentecostal Evangelical Faith of Africa (PEFA) chairman John Okinda and a team of six opinion leaders from Suna East and Suna West constituencies.
The meeting held at the Carmel Park hotel in Kisii town was attended by Mrs Odhiambo, Rusana, Mwabe and Pesa while Odongo and Ngao did not attend.
Speaking to The Standard early this week, Mwabe said he opposed the voting idea after the candidates present refused to pick insisting that despite the selection of Rusana, he would be on the ballot.
When contacted by The Standard, Pesa and Mrs Odhiambo said they are still in the race.
“My candidature is not on reverse gear. I will be on the ballot come 2022,” said Mrs Odhiambo.
Rusana has, however, downplayed the wrangles, promising to consult with his opponents to ensure the region produces a candidate.
In a phone interview with The Standard on May 16, Rusana who wants to run on an ODM ticket wondered why the change of heart yet his opponents fully participated in the exercise.
“We were all present, and they fully participated, I still don’t know what happened a few days later, maybe the media can find out from them,” he said.
He said with the elders’ blessing, it is all system go as he tries to consolidate his backyard before he can approach other regions.
The country secretary said he is banking on the support of the masses and not that of Governor Obado as his opponents are claiming to win the seat come 2022.
“There is something the elders saw in me, I don’t take it for granted and will not disappoint their trust,” added Rusana.
 “Because I am always a quiet person, my opponents have been underestimating me. I will not mind getting the support of like-minded leaders who will help me shape Migori, I will first take my mandate to people.”
According to the Suba community elders led by chairman Riogi Riogi, having a single candidate would increase their son or daughter’s chances of succeeding Governor Obado.
Riogi said he is aware of the wrangle, but called on other aspirants who felt shortchanged to seek dialogue.
“In our own wisdom, we saw that placing a single candidate would strengthen the community’s unity and supporting the candidate would be easy and hence the winning of the elections,” Riogi said.
The Suna clan, which is part of the Suba community, has been angling to field a single candidate to solidify Suna West (46,162 votes) and Suna East (46,574 votes) out of the 389,182 votes in Migori.
With Governor Obado ditching the ODM for the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the Kuria community factor, the 2022 Migori gubernatorial race could be the trickiest.
Obado is reported to have mounted a massive membership recruitment drive for the PDP after announcing he will ditch Raila Odinga-led ODM.
The governor's point men have rolled out registration and membership drive across the county manually and digitally in an exercise expected to run up to the end of the year.
Other aspirants who are eying the seat include Assembly Speaker Boaz Okoth, Senator Ochillo Ayacko, former Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno, former Nyatike MP Edick Anyanga, US-based academician Mark Ogutu and businessman Robert Okong’o.
Homa Bay health workers: MCAs interfere with health services
Health workers’ unions in Homa Bay have accused Members of the County Assembly (MCAs) of interfering with health services at the County Referral Hospital.
The County Assembly recently adopted a report that the acting Chief Executive Officer of the hospital Peter Ogolla be removed to pave way for the reinstatement of the former CEO Dr Lilian Kocholla who was recently shown the door.
Dr Kocholla was sent on compulsory leave because of alleged poor management which had put the hospital in a deplorable state.
This made MCAs through the Health Committee conduct investigations which revealed the hospital lacked many essential drugs including panadol.
Instead, the MCAs blamed the health executive Prof Richard Muga for the problems in the hospital, before they impeached him a few days later.
But the Kenya National Union of Nurses (KNUN) and Kenya Union of Clinical Officers (KUCO) accused the MCAs of interfering with the service delivery at the facility.
The county KNUN Secretary Omondi Nyonje, KUCO Executive Secretary Philip Mbom and KUCO chairman Stephen Obunga said changes in the management of the hospital should not be altered again.
“It is true that there has been an issue of poor management at the hospital and that is why patients were forced to buy many essential items including gloves for medics to attend to them,” Nyonje said
He, however, noted that the new management should be given time“ to enable Dr Ogolla to apply all his skills of correcting anomalies which were caused by the previous management.”  
Mbom argued that the recommendation by the MCAs to reinstate Dr Kocholla is tantamount to interfering with the provision of health services at the hospital.
“The change of management was made to correct weaknesses which impeded the proper provision of health services in the hospital. Any attempts to defeat the changes mean impending delivery of health services to Homa Bay residents,” Mbom said.
Obunga said health is a sensitive department that should be handled keenly. “We urge MCAs to handle health department with utmost care because any mistake by management of a health facility can cause loss of lives.”
The County Assembly Health Committee chairperson Joan Ogada said their aim was to improve service delivery in the hospital.
“The staff at the hospital should forge a spirit of teamwork and unity to ensure quality health service delivery to Homa Bay residents,” Ms Ogada said when she tabled the investigative report in the Assembly. 
The fate of Prof Muga now lies in hands of Governor Cyprian Awiti who can decide to sack or retain him in his executive committee.
Veteran journalist Philip Ochieng was buried at his home in Manyatta Village, Migori County yesterday.
His family, led by daughter Judith Adhiambo, eulogised him as a family man.
They said he was a celebrity to the outside world, and famous as a wordsmith, but was always quiet at home.
“It had great meaning for me. My father was never an orator both in public and at home,” said Adhiambo.
The family said despite Ochieng’s quiet disposition, he still played with the children, especially his grandchildren.
His grandson, Philip Ochieng Junior, said he spoilt them by taking them to parks and buying them candy.
“He was a doting grandfather, we were always there and fought to catch his attention and open the door for him when he came home from work,” Junior said.
Editor’s Guild president Churchill Otieno remembered Ochieng as a person who stood out as the father of professional journalism.
“Many appreciate him today for being a mentor. We appreciate him for the courage.
“He built that stage into a global one and his home was no longer Manyatta but the world,” Otieno said.
He thanked Ochieng’s family and the people of Manyatta village for giving them a great person.
Senator Ochillo Ayacko said the late Ochieng shared knowledge as he prepared people to succeed him in the field of journalism, which he helped shape for six decades.
“In this village, we will remember him as a great person,” Ayacko said.
According to the family, Ochieng, who spent many years in Nairobi, came back home this year and fell sick after three weeks.
He was taken to St Joseph Ombo Mission Hospital where he died on April 27.
Ochieng was married to Jennifer Dawa with whom they had four children.  
He had another child from an earlier relationship.
ODM, UDA protest as police storm Ongwae's home over Bonchari by election
Asection of political leaders in Kisii has protested after armed police officers stormed Governor James Ongwae’s home.
The politicians allied to ODM and UDA parties said it is unfortunate that police were being used politically to intimidate other leaders ahead of the Bonchari by-election slated for Tuesday next week.
The two parties have raised concerns over intimidation and harassment by police as their respective candidates conduct campaigns.
The by-election has attracted 13 contestants.
On Thursday night armed police stormed Kisii County Governor James Ongwae’s residence as he was having tea with Senator Prof Sam Ongeri and Woman Representative Janet Ong’era on accusation that they were holding an illegal political meeting.
Addressing the media in Kisii town on Friday morning, Ongwae said he had been informed that an unlawful assembly was taking place at his residence, which they had come to disperse.
Ongwae said he requested the police to withdraw but they latter insisted they would not leave until the two legislators had left his residence.
“I am calling on President Uhuru Kenyatta to put a stop to this, elections come and go. Leaders are all transitory. Democratic institutions must be respected. 50 officers can’t storm my house as if I am a wanted criminal,” he said.
The governor added: “I didn’t become a governor by accident. I was elected by majority votes. This is not the way to run a Country. I have been a Permanent Secretary and I didn’t see such decisions made. This is unfortunate.”
Senator Ongeri said the party understands the art of winning and losing in any elections.
While urging IEBC to take charge of the forthcoming by-election, Ongeri said he had traversed the Bonchari constituency and was hopeful that the residents will make the right choice.
“You may have a temporary relief that you won but I can assure you that you have lost it all. One must understand where people are coming from and where they are going. There are seasons for everything, don't try to maneuver and manipulate the result,” he said.
Ong’era in her sentiments said it was shocking for police officers to raid the governor’s residence without a court order.
“I am demanding concrete reasons from IEBC and other relevant agencies on why they allowed for a by-election yet they know there was Covid-19 amongst us."
"We have a by-election in Juja but we have not seen such kind of harassment,” she said.
ODM party Secretary General Edwin Sifuna said that "desperate times call for desperate measures."
Deputy President William Ruto’s quest to infiltrate the Nyanza region ahead of next year’s elections is gaining momentum as his new allies in the region stepped up efforts to popularise him.
The leaders, most of who are considered ODM rebels after falling out with party leader Raila Odinga, are pushing for a generational change in the region’s leadership and a new economic path in their efforts to market the DP.
Last week, leaders who included one of Ruto’s point men in Nyanza, Eliud Owalo, met at a Nairobi hotel to plan what they described as their economic strategy for the region. 
They said their strategy will form the basis of their negotiations with other presidential hopefuls ahead of 2022. 
According to them, anyone seeking the support of the region will have to enter into a pre-election economic pact with them.
This comes as Raila struggles to calm a storm that recently rocked ODM leading to Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo being kicked out of a key parliamentary committee. 
Many former foot soldiers of Raila attended Friday’s meeting convened by Owalo, who is also a former aide to the ODM leader. 
They include those who decamped after losing ODM nominations in the 2013 and 2017 elections, among them former Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma, former Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno and former Rangwe MP Martin Ogindo.
Ranguma is hoping to challenge Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o for the Kisumu seat.
A source who did not wish to be named said those present were warming up to join United Democratic Alliance (UDA), which is associated with the deputy president. 
“We want to challenge ODM’s dominance in the Nyanza region. Our goal is to rally the region to support Ruto’s presidential bid,” said the source. 
The politician claimed that they have the blessings of Ruto to organise the meeting with one of the agendas being to look for ways to attract more Nyanza leaders to their camp.
The strategy also involves attracting professionals from the region who will help compile the economic needs of the region in a document that will form the basis for Ruto’s campaigns in Nyanza. 
The group issued a statement saying it was reviewing Nyanza’s economy with the aim of finding ways to improve it.
Owalo accused unnamed leaders from Nyanza of being preoccupied with the pursuit of political power and failing to address the economic problems of the region.
Luo Nyanza has supported Raila since his first attempt at the presidency in 1997. In 2013, President Uhuru Kenyatta, with the help of the former secretary-general of the disbanded. 
The National Alliance party Onyango Oloo tried to make inroads in the region, but residents voted for the opposition leader. 
Lecturer awarded Sh 416,000 for breach of contract
Apart-time lecturer has been awarded Sh416,000 after his employer breached his contract by refusing to pay him salary for eleven months.
The court ruled that the evidence by the E-Smart Technical College lecturer Tobias Andhala would be fully adopted as the college failed to step in court even after being served with a notice.  
“Andhala testified on March 4, 2021, and his testimony was not challenged or rebutted, and the court will enter a judgment for him in the sum of Sh416,000 that he demanded from the College,” said Justice Stephen Radido of Kisumu Labour Court on Friday.
Andhala was employed as a part-time lecturer at the College on June 28, 2015, and by May 27, 2016, the College had not fully paid his salary.
On September 5, 2017, he escalated the dispute at the Labour Court after efforts to compel his employer to pay him.
“The college was served the court papers through its secretary on October 26, 2017, but it did not file a response,” said Radido.
This prompted the court to direct that the case proceeds without the party that had defied court summons.
At the close of the hearing of the case, the court was convinced that Andhala had a contract with the college which was abused.
Justice Radido further ordered that the award would accrue interest from September 5, 2017, when the case was filed.
The court directed Andhala to settle all the legal costs in the suit.
Police in Kisumu have arrested a 63-year-old woman in connection with theft of mosquito nets which were stolen from government stores.
Police said they recovered 19 bales of nets suspected to be part of those stolen from Rabuor and Nyang’ande two weeks ago.
Officers from Obunga Police Station, working on a tip-off from the public, raided a house at USAID Estate on Friday and nabbed the woman.
She was taken to Obunga Police Station after failing to explain the source of the nets, then transferred to Central Police Station where she was booked.
The woman was later moved to Ahero Police Station in Ntyando, where the initial report about the loss of the nets was made.
Kisumu Central sub-county police commander James Ng’etich said they are investigating the matter.
“We decided to hand the suspect to officers in Ahero since the theft had been reported there and they had also arrested other suspects,” said Ng’etich
The county launched the distribution of treated mosquito nets to residents two weeks ago in an exercise that will see at least 790, 000 nets given to 1.2 million people.
The nets had been kept in various stores, mostly hospitals and schools within Kisumu’s seven sub-counties.
However, the exercise was halted in parts of Nyando after it was discovered 340 bales, each containing 50 nets, had disappeared from Rabuor and Nyang’ande hospitals.
County Malaria Coordinator Lilyana Dayo, who was coordinating the distribution of the nets, noted that the theft was discovered on the day the distribution was to begin.
At least four officials from the two hospitals were arrested in connection with the theft.
The arrest of the 63-year-old woman at Obunga however marked the first breakthrough in the investigations after police discovered 19 bales of mosquito nets suspected to be part of those that were stolen.
The police said the woman told them she was selling the nets on behalf of an individual she declined to name.
Nyando sub-county police boss Lewnard Matete said the woman will remain in custody until Monday when she will be arraigned.
Matete said the suspect had been uncooperative and has declined to divulge information regarding the nets.
“She keeps changing her story. Police are unable to trace the movement of the nets because the suspect does not want to give information. 
She is now claiming she cannot recall the name or identity and does not even have the contacts of the person she claims delivered the nets to her house for storage. The suspect says all she knows is that the person comes from Busia,” said Matete.
Efforts by the suspect’s kin to have her released on police bond failed.
“With this kind of conflicting information, it is not safe for us to grant her police bond. She will have to wait in the cells until Monday when she will go to court,” said Matete.
The implementation of a multi-million-shilling project launched by Dr Ida Odinga in Homa Bay County could delay because of a stalemate between the contractor and Kenya Power.
The project christened Dr Ida Odinga Library, Research, Innovation and Resource Centre is under construction at Ogande Girls High School in Homa Bay Town Constituency and is expected to cost over Sh300 million.
The project started in December last year after a groundbreaking ceremony presided over by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i, his education counterpart Prof George Magoha and Dr Ida.
Its foundation is complete but the construction cannot go on because of electricity cables hanging over the site.
The cables supply electricity to Suneka town in Kisii County from Homa Bay town. 
Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma who toured the project accused Kenya Power of failing to move the cables.
“The contractor has told me he asked Kenya Power to relocate the power lines but the organisation has not done so. The company should move with speed and relocate the power lines. Electric cables hang above the site hence the work cannot continue,” said Kaluma.
The MP said the cost of the project is likely to go up if the stalemate persists.
“The stalemate must be resolved. We want to see the project completed as planned delay in implementation of a project has financial implications hence this matter must be handled with the seriousness it deserves,” Kaluma said.
Homa Bay County Kenya Power Manager Ken Okumbe said his office is aware of the stalemate and has given the contractor a quotation of the fee he is supposed to pay to facilitate the relocation of the power lines.
“It is true they reported the matter to our office. We gave them the quotation for rerouting the power line but they have not paid,” said Okumbe.
The project aims at establishing a library with a capacity of 500 students, an amphitheatre that can accommodate 1,000 people, an ICT hub and a creative centre with a recording studio.
Construction of the resource centre was expected to take 18 months, from December 21 when the groundbreaking ceremony took place.
The local NG-CDF contributed Sh50 million towards the project.
A 77-year-old woman from East Kolwa in Kisumu East Sub-County has been taking care of abandoned teenage mothers and widows for 25 years now.
Florence Otieno says the initiative has enabled her to “give a second chance to a vulnerable group of women”.
Otieno first put up the rescue centre at her home in 1996 after being involved in a road accident, which left her partially paralysed.
“The crash made me discover that life can be lost within a second. Due to that fact, I pledged to make the society I live in a better place by helping the vulnerable. In this case, it is majorly teenage mothers and the widows,” she told The Standard.
The septuagenarian has thus far rescued 38 teenage mothers, and at least 12 widows.
As the number of girls increased in her rescue centre, so did her financial responsibility.
Otieno said she, consequently, had to devise new survival methods.
“I set aside a parcel of land for farming. The widows and the teenage mums would farm commercial crops, which we’d sell and use the proceeds to feed and clothe ourselves,” she said.
Other girls diversified into sandal, shoe and handbag-making business. They use material from water hyacinth harvested from Lake Victoria to make the products. The money raised under this initiative is used to finance the girls’ education.
Teenage pregnancies continue to be a headache for national and county governments.
Data by the Kenya Demographic and Health Survey (KDHS) indicates two out of ten girls in the country aged between 15 and 19 years are either pregnant or have given birth.
In Kisumu County, a multi-sectoral group headed by ODM leader Raila Odinga’s wife, Ida Odinga, is at the forefront in raising awareness against premarital sex.
Otieno says her initiative has helped prevent some of the young girls in her centre from being exposed to sexual predators.
Benta Awino, a mother of two, is one of the beneficiaries of Otieno’s rescue programme.
Awino’s house in Orongo Village was recently deluged by heavy rains, which forced her to relocate. Otieno took the youthful widow in.
“I am thankful to Florence [Otieno] for starting this helpful cause,” she said with a light Duchenne smile.
More than 2,200 families in Migori and Homa Bay counties have been displaced by floods following heavy rains.
At Kakelo Kakoth location in Migori County, some 300 homes were submerged on Monday, forcing locals to move to safer grounds.
In Lower Karapolo,  60 households had been marooned by the floods while West Kanyuor location had 99 households affected by the floods.
According to Lower Central Kadem Chief Philip Orwa, areas around Kuja River such as Lwanda and Kuja were also flooded.
Nyor Primary School teachers from Lwanda had to wade through knee-high waters to get to the school. 
Young pupils skipped school for fear of being carried away by floods.
The school’s headteacher Elisha Ondiek noted that learners from Kuja area had a hard time getting to school.
Kabuto Primary School, Nyora Primary School, Angugo Primary School and Molly Secondary School were also among the flooded schools.
Hundreds of families have been displaced in Rachuonyo North due to heavy rains which have pounded Homa Bay County in the last three days.
More than 100 households were displaced in Kogembo sub-location in Rachuonyo North sub-county.
The floods occurred after River Awach broke its banks.
According to Kogembo Assistant Chief Hezekiah Owino, the floods began on Monday night.
Simbi primary and Simbi secondary schools were also flooded.
 At Nyapuodi village in Kanam A location in the same sub-county, hundreds of families were affected too.
“At Nyapuodi beach, four houses fell after heavy rains. Our roads are impassable,” said George Orimba, a local resident.
In Kobala sub-location in the same sub-county, many families were displaced after their houses were marooned by floods.
In Ndhiwa sub-county, hundreds of families were affected by floods after River Kuja broke its banks.
Residents have appealed to government agencies for humanitarian aid.
“We appeal to the government to intervene and rescue us,” said John Odiembo, a resident of Ndhiwa.
Meanwhile, farm produce worth millions of shillings has been destroyed in Naivasha due to heavy rains.
The most affected is Mirera estate off the Naivasha-Mai Mahiu road.
The road between Mirera and Karagita was completely flooded, forcing motorists to seek alternatives routes.
Also rendered impassable was the road linking Kijabe Mission Hospital to Moi South Lake.
According to Njoki Nyanjui, one of the affected farmers, the flooding started on Sunday following heavy rains in the upper catchment area.
She said the waters had flooded their farms and roads, leaving a trail of destruction.
Njoki called on the county government to address the issue of drainage, terming it a major challenge facing the area.
According to a message sent by the Red Cross, there were indications that the ongoing rains could cause more floods in the region.
KeNHA warns motorists against using Goye crossing as floods wreak havoc
Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA) has warned motorists against crossing Goye causeway due to the overflowing Lake Victoria.
According to KeNHA, the situation is as a result of the heavy rainfall pounding the Nyanza region, affecting sections of the Lake Victoria basin.
"Since there is no alternative access to Osieko, we wish to advise motorists along that section not to attempt crossing the overtopped section, and to only cross when water levels are low," said KeNHA.
The authority further warned trucks against using the crossing as they evaluate mechanisms of undertaking works on the structure.
Goye crossing, which was built in 1975, was estimated to operate for 20 years before a new one could be built.
On Wednesday, commuters were stranded for the better part of the day as they waited for the water levels to go down.
Onyango Oduma, a driver, told The Standard that he has not reported to work because of the condition of the road. "I've not been able to cross to the other side to get sand for my clients."
Oduma said the failure by the government to construct the bridge despite numerous complaints from the residents has led to the current situation, adding several operations have been affected.
Last week, transport along the busy road was paralysed for hours following an accident. 
Residents called on the government to repair the road to save them costs they incur and the time they waste using the dilapidated road.
A truck overturned and blocked the road leading to a snarl-up. 
A commuter, Dorothy Achieng who had an appointment at Got Agulu Hospital, said she was forced to walk for more than two kilometres.
Aggrey Ochieng, a resident, termed the road critical to the economy of the county and accused local leaders of neglecting it. “We have raised the issue with the MP, governor and KeNHA but nothing has been done.” 
Elisha Odhiambo, a resident of Usenge Town, said they were spending a lot of money on car repairs. 
Matatus and boda boda riders have also hiked fares, said Odhiambo.
Yesterday, KeNHA said that there were plans of constructing a permanent bridge.
"Procurement process is underway to solve the rising Lake Victoria water levels at that crossing," KeNHA said.
Five suspected terrorists arrested in Kisumu on Sunday have been transferred to Nairobi as detectives move to finalise investigations.
On Monday, a Kisumu court granted the police 10 more days to continue holding the suspects for interrogation.
Yesterday, detectives from the Anti-Terror Police Unit drove the suspects to their headquarters at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations for further questioning.
The suspects are Jamal Muhamud, Abdul Razzaq, Nadeed Muhammad, Amin Muhammad and Younas Muhammad, all of Pakistani origin.
A detective privy to the investigations said that the suspects had travelled in two groups through the Kenya-Uganda border.
The suspects had done their best to shake off police officers before hawk-eyed officers nabbed two of them in Kombewa in Kisumu following a tip-off.
An interrogation of the suspects established that another group had also made its way in to Kenya and was on its way to Kericho.
This prompted police officers to mount a roadblock at Ahero and searched all vehicles from Kisumu.
“They were keen on escaping and even alighted at Ahero and started walking back when they learnt officers were on their trail,” said a detective privy to the investigations.
The detectives are also probing some of the people they might have contacted.
It is  unclear whether they had intentions of carrying out attacks but the police indicated that their behaviour and some of the items they had aroused suspicion
A detective involved in the case said the suspects were found with "many" telephone gadgets and military regalia.
Yesterday, Kisumu County Commander Samuel Anampiu confirmed the suspects had been transferred to Nairobi.
“We transferred them to Nairobi for ease and convenience of processing,” said Anampiu.
The changing face of Siaya town thanks to devolution
The face of Siaya town has tremendously changed thanks to devolution that has not only attracted investors in the once sleepy, dusty town but seen the initiation of a number of projects.
Development projects are slowly changing the fortunes of the town that has struggled to find a footing despite it being the headquarters of the county but questions have been raised on the amount spent on some of the projects. 
Siaya town has grown from a market formally known as Ahindi years ago to the district headquarters and now to county headquarters.
Among the projects changing the face of Siaya is the Sh340 million Siaya High Court building that is nearing completion.
Judiciary Chief Registrar Ann Amadi inspected the building last December and gave it a clean bill of health saying the works were almost complete.
The county government also recently spent Sh43 million on Ahindi Gardens and the governor’s park that were commissioned by Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa.
Wamalwa also commissioned the new Sh75 million county headquarters.
The county government has also spent Sh165 million on renovating the Siaya County Referral Hospital.
Governor Cornel Rasanga said another ongoing project is Sh400million ultra-modern stadium which is 90 per cent complete.
The Sh100 million street lighting project by National Government and tarmac roads within town that were part of the Siaya-Nyadorera highway project, have also contributed to the town’s new look.
Kennedy Onyango, a resident of Siaya town said some of the projects such as the street lighting project were as a result of the goodwill that had been bolstered by the Handshake between ODM leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta.
John Odhiambo, also a resident, noted there was a big improvement on the face of Siaya but raised concerns on the cost of most of the projects, especially those done by the county government.
Walter Okello, the Lands chief officer said the county government has also started demolishing temporary structures to create order and improve the image of the town.
He added that there is need for residents with old buildings within the town to renovate them so they conform with the standards of a town.
“We have currently stopped renewing leases of those with old buildings unless they are renovated.
“Those with temporary structures that will be demolished have also been showed a trading area within town where they are required to put up their business structures,” Okello said.
Professor Paul Achola, who is the chair of the municipality board in the county, says several years ago, Siaya was just a market and social centre but it has grown.
He said in 1940s, the current Siaya town was only known as Ahindi market where people came to purchase food and household products. It was also a social centre for sporting activities before it became the district headquarters.
Rasanga said that the development projects are sufficient evidence that devolution is working.
“Evidently, the county government of Siaya continues to implement projects with a view of improving the socio-economic well-being of the citizens and changing the landscape of Siaya town,” Rasanga noted.
“My government’s partnership with the World Bank through Kenya Devolution Support Programme and Kenya Urban Support Programme have since seen us implement some key projects in the county.”
Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga was put in a spot for allegedly spending more money from the county emergency fund than the initial budget in the fight against Covid-19.
In a virtual meeting with the Senate Standing Committee on Health yesterday, Mr Rasanga was hard-pressed to explain where he got Sh115 million for Covid-19 related activities yet the money allocated to the county emergency fund was Sh100 million.
The Auditor General's special audit report on utilisation of Covid-19 funds by counties, flagged over-expenditure from the county emergency fund in Siaya.
“It was established that as of 31 July 2020, Sh115,884,928 had been committed for Covid-19 related activities which was against the approved budget allocated to the county emergency fund for Covid-19 purposes,” read the statement in part.
But the governor said the county only spent Sh100 million and not Sh115 million as the special audit report indicated.
There may be an error but I can confirm that we did not spend more than Sh100 million.
"I can confirm that all commitments were charged within the funds. There was no over expenditure,” Rasanga told the committee.
The Auditor General defended the report, saying there was proof of payment vouchers amounting to Sh115 million.
The committee questioned the conflicting information from the county and AG.
“So where did the Auditor General get the findings if the governor is insisting that the amount used was Sh100 million? Did the report come from the sky?” Posed Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina.
The committee chair Kisumu Senator Fred Outa however, demanded that the governor provides proof of expenditure.
“We will give you one week to provide evidence that you did not spend more than Sh100 million,” Mr Outa stated.
Siaya appropriated Sh270 million in respect to Covid-19 and related emergencies out of which Sh100 million was from the county emergency fund with the county receiving Sh60 million on July 3 and another Sh40 million on July 14 respectively.
Other funds received by the county are government conditional grants worth Sh97 million, Danida Sh6 million, national government health workers allowance Sh36 million and Kenya Devolution Support Programme (KSDP) Sh30 million.
Rasanga was also faulted for not spending KSDP and the government’s conditional grants in good time.
“As at the time of the audit the conditional grant and KSDP were still held in the Siaya county Covid-19 fund account and the Siaya County KSDP respectively. This was attributed to absence of approved budgets, work plans, and procurement plans to facilitate spending,” the report said.
The governor said the KSDP funds were used to purchase Covid-19 supplies.
“Commitment for isolation which represented 71 per cent of the funds could only be paid out on completion of the isolation centres."
At the time of the audit, the funds had been committed and the service providers/contractors were at various stages of delivery/completion of isolation centres which had not reached the payments stage, and hence the un-utilisation of funds at that time,” he explained.
Student almost missed national test due to illness
Towards the end of 2020, Henry Madaga was down with complications related to ulcers.
He spent a number of weeks on treatment to the point of contemplating missing out on the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examination. 
But yesterday, Madaga, 18, was all smiles as Education CS George Magoha read his name as one of the top performers, after he scored an A plain, and emerged the eighth best countrywide.
The first-born in a family of five, who wants to become a doctor, was at his uncle’s clothes’ shop in Kisumu when the results were released.
The alumnus of Maranda High School said: “I did not know I would manage to sit the examination. The sickness put me down, but I thank God I overcome it.”
When The Standard caught up with him at the shop in Chichwa Market, he still appeared weak.
Persistence kept him going, he said, adding that he would like to join the University of Nairobi.
Paul Kaunda, who was Madaga’s head teacher at Kosau Primary in Kisumu County, was elated by the performance. Madaga was Kosau’s best in the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education.
“He didn’t have school fees to join Form One, and we asked the then Maranda principal to admit him,” Kaunda said.
A family in Ogango, Manga Sub-county in Nyamira, is in distress following the disappearance of their kin after he left school more than three months ago.
According to the boy’s mother, Jane Mirambo, the family was not aware that he was missing until two days after schools closed for the Easter holidays.
“I waited for Kevin to come home but he didn’t show up. When we went to school to inquire about his whereabouts, we were told he had not been seen for nearly the entire term,” the mother told The Standard.
She said they reported her son’s missing at Sengera Police Station under OB 7/23/0/2021.
Ever since, it has been a blame game between the school administration and the family over who should bear responsibility for the missing boy.
An exit sheet recorded by the school administration and which was shared with police shows that Kevin Machuki, a Form One student at Nyaisa SDA Mixed Day and Boarding School, had left the institution on January 10 to attend a funeral at home.
“We are not aware of any funeral at home this year. The report is untrue,” Anne Kemunto, the boy’s sister-in-law said.
Remarks on the records of official communication between the school administration and Kevin’s mother indicates she could not be reached on phone to be alerted that her son had secured an exit from school to attend a funeral at home.
However, a text message is said to have been sent to the parent to that effect.
“We could not deny the boy permission to attend a funeral, especially after he insisted he had to. After desperately trying to reach the mother on phone, we decided to let the boy go."
"A follow-up when he failed to report back a few days later was difficult since the mother could not be reached. The parent’s phone was off all the time,” Tobias Omollo, the school principal, said.
According to Mr Omollo, the parent should have made a follow-up at school after receiving the text message alerting them that their boy had been allowed out of school.
“We alerted the parent through an SMS after we failed to reach them. Why did they not respond in time after the boy failed to arrive home? We made another follow-up but there was no response,” he said.
The school head said their records show that on February 2, 2021, the mother went to school and paid Sh4,000 fee, but never sought to know his whereabouts or even inquire about his progress from the class teacher.
“It is a normal procedure that whenever a parent goes to his child’s school, he or she seeks a class teacher to inquire about their progress or even drop some pocket money for them."
"In Kevin’s case, he never had any money in the bursar’s pocket money account,” Omollo said.
But the mother said on the day she went to pay the fees, the students were sitting exams, and that was why she never inquired about her son.
The claim was, however, contradicted by the school records.
A copy of the school’s official academic calendar that was shared with police probing the matter indicates that students were not sitting exams on the said day. Exams were conducted between February 9 and February 12, and not February 2, as the mother claimed.
Manga Police Commander Gabriel Mwangangi said the file on Kevin’s disappearance had been forwarded to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP).
“We heard both parties and we have done investigations and made our recommendations, which we have forwarded to the DPP. It is evident that there was laxity somewhere, but it’s upon the DPP to make a determination on the case,” Mwangangi said.
Kemunto described Kevin as a calm person who had few friends.
“He was always quiet and very conservative. He has never been involved in any vices or bad company,” Kemunto said.
The family is appealing to anyone who could be having information on the whereabouts of the teenager to report to any police station.
Stop using Otiende’s ouster to divide ODM, Kaluma warns party opponents
Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma on Sunday, May 9 accused ODM political enemies of using the recent removal of Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo from a parliamentary committee to divide the party.
Speaking at Ogande Girls High School when he supervised the implementation of development projects by the NG-CDF in his constituency, Kaluma accused ODM opponents of blowing the matter out of proportion to taint the party’s image.
“There are people who take advantage of Otiende’s removal to create unnecessary division in the party. They invoke issues which never existed between the MP and the ODM party leadership,” Kaluma said.
Kaluma said it was wrong to blame ODM because of making changes in a parliamentary committee, adding that such changes were normal procedures.
“It is normal for a political party to change its members in a parliamentary committee hence the recent change in JLAC should not be an issue,” he said.
Kaluma said Otiende’s removal should not be misunderstood to be punishment by ODM as some people are trying to portray it.
He said Otiende still wields membership of the powerful Public Accounts Committee (PAC) committee in Parliament. 
He said Rarieda MP should have been removed from the PAC if ODM had issues with him.
“If ODM leader Raila Odinga was in Parliament, he would be the one chairing PAC committee because this is a highly valued committee headed by an opposition leader. But Otiende’s membership in the committee means ODM values him,” Kaluma said.
The MP told ODM supporters and residents of Nyanza region where Otiende hails from to be wary of the enemies.
“The enemies are out to divide us as a party and as a community but let us stand firm to withstand their dirty plans,” Kaluma said.
Otiende was recently removed from the vice-chairmanship of the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee (JLAC) in the National Assembly and replaced by Ruaraka MP Tom Kajwang’ over his stance on the Building Bridges Initiative Bill.
He told Nyanza residents to be ready for a referendum after the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) Constitutional Amendment Bill 2020 was approved by parliament.
He said time had come for Kenyans to have a new Constitution.
“We are soon going to start campaigns because we are likely to hold the referendum in August this year. Let our people be ready,” Kaluma said.
He said the Bill will help fight corruption by compelling the Judiciary to conclude graft cases within a period of one year after being filed.
Male nurse arrested in Siaya for defiling Form Two student
Police in Gem, Siaya County on Friday, May 7, questioned a male nurse for allegedly defiling a Form Two student.
The nurse based at a health dispensary in Gem sub-county was, however, released because of insufficient evidence.
The nurse is reported to have committed the offence on May 2, but other sources indicated he was having an affair with the minor. 
Gem sub-county police boss Charles Chacha said they have launched investigations, and that police were trying to piece the evidence together to build a case against the nurse.
He said the nurse denied knowledge of the girl, adding that he was dating an older lady different from the one in question.
"We arrested, questioned the nurse and released him. We have taken the minor to two different health facilities in Siaya and Gem for medical reports but they found nothing tangible that can help us with the investigations," he said.
Chacha said members of the public found the nurse with the 17-year-old girl in his vehicle which was parked near a bush.
"The investigations may have dragged a little because we did not receive this report at the right time. The parents had first reported to the area chief. They have been trying to solve the matter away from the authorities but pressure from the residents is the reason we got this case," said Chacha.
He added: " Most parents have made it difficult for their defiled children to get justice after opting for an out-of-court settlement with the offenders. This is unfair to the victim."
Chacha said after learning about the incident, they traced the girl and his parents and took her to the hospital.
"We cannot arrest him and take him to court yet due to lack of evidence. The girl has been denying everything. She denied knowledge of the nurse when we questioned her," added the sub-county commander.
He said police are still investigating the matter and will ensure the minor gets justice.
Nyamira County leadership has been put under task to explain how the devolved unit lost Sh2.8 billion in salaries allegedly paid to ghost workers in the financial year 2018/2019.
The burden of the illegal employment that six years ago put Nyaribo in roguer heads with his then boss, the late John Nyagarama resurfaced Friday afternoon, this time round putting Nyaribo in a tight corner with the county's oversight body.
The recruitment of the alleged staff led to an increase of Sh3 million paid out as salaries every month. The said employees are said to have been employed without due process.
Committee chairman Achilo Ayako who is the Senator Migori tasked the Governor to explain how the County got to a point of recruitment staff without following the right process including placing an advert and allowing the County Public Service Board to carry out interviews.
“These are human beings that should be available physically. This is a mess that occurred more than two years ago but the County Government lacks basic documents to support an irregularity that was committed.”
Governor Nyaribo did confirm that there were no proper records to help him trace the alleged ghost workers. “I have commissioned a staff audit process to help unearth the mess that might have been committed.”
The County Public Service Board Chairman Dr Peter Kereri was also at pains to explain whether the said 736 employees were duly employed or not.
Dr Kereri confirmed that the employment of the said staff was done by the County Executive. “I had not reported to the office at the time but can confirm that there was communication between the board and the executive on the need to employ subordinate staff and some enforcement officers.”
However, he was not able to table the names of the employed staff nor could he confirm the number of the people who were employed at the time.
Nyamira Senator Okongo Mogeni said the reinstatement of the 736 staff was done irregularly and through collusion between the County Government and some advocates by signing a consent.
“These people must appear in Court one by one and be charged. They must provide their employment letters to prove that indeed they exist. This is a conspiracy that must be investigated. Somebody must have blocked the court process to have Nyamira residents save billions of money paid to ghost workers.”
He added: "There is no ruling over the case as it is being said here. What is filed is just a consent to end the case and reinstate the workers.”
Bomet Senator, Benjamin Langat who is also a member of the Committee observed that the County Government lacked proper documentation in almost every document.
“We want to pin the mess on the actual sinners. Who employed these people? Who mooted the idea to create the vacancies? If they were fired, where are the sacking letters? If they still exist, where do they work?”
The Governor was given 14 days to produce proper documentation to a number of queries that were also raised during the hearings.
The Committee has been sitting at the Kisii County Assembly hall for the past one week.
Migori Governor Okoth Obado who was set to be grilled on Thursday morning snubbed the committee hearings.
Homa Bay County Governor Cyprian Awiti also could not attend the hearings.
 He was to appear before the committee on Friday morning. 
Migori MCAs on Thursday, May 6, refuted claims that Majority Leader Ken Ouma and chief whip Kevins Keke were ousted because they are People’s Democratic Party (PDP) sympathisers.
PDP links rock Migori Assembly as MCAs oust majority leader, whip
County Assembly Speaker Boaz Okoth said out of 41 MCAs from ODM, 27 signed for the removal of the two.
The duo’s removal came after ODM MCAs served the speaker with a report containing the changes they wanted to be made.
According to Okoth, ODM MCAs resolved to elect Owiyo as Majority Leader and his East Kamagambo counterpart Nyawade as the assembly’s chief whip.
Masaba MCA Abedy Marowa accused the ousted Majority leader of delaying the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) motion in the assembly and that he was supporting the PDP agenda.
"Members found that the ousted leaders were bankrolling PDP issues," claimed Marowa.
West Kanyamkago MCA Peter Mijungu described the ousted Majority leader as the greatest PDP sympathiser.
Ouma (South Sakwa Ward) and Keke (South Kamagambo) were on Wednesday ousted in a heated session that has led to cracks in the assembly.
Ouma and Keke termed their removal as unfair, adding that those who pushed for their removal were ‘PDP sympathisers trying to woo locals’.
Ouma said his removal was intimidation after he questioned the misappropriation of funds.
Owiyo who is the newly elected Majority leader said ODM leaders in the assembly never had any meeting or consensus 'with a party called PDP'.
He said the process of restructuring the assembly leadership should not be politicised, adding that no member met any PDP officials.
"Members of ODM have a mandate and the obligation to choose the people they want and remove those whom they feel are not fulfilling their mandates. All that is being said is out of anger," said Owiyo said.
Nyawade said it was unfortunate that the reshuffling of the top seats was being linked to PDP sympathisers.
There has been political heat in Migori following the defection of Governor Okoth Obado to PDP.
ODM faulted Governor Obado’s defection to PDP with the MCAs, threatening to impeach him.
A man accused of killing a butcher man in Homa Bay County will be detained for seven days before being charged in court.
The suspect is accused of killing Martin Owiti in Rodi Kopany last Wednesday.
Police on Monday obtained court orders to continue detaining him pending completion of investigations.
In an affidavit sworn by Ben Wanyama who is attached to Homa Bay Directorate of Criminal Investigations, he said he was yet to record statements from witnesses. 
“A postmortem examination on the deceased has not been done nor has the mental assessment of the suspect. I pray to the court to grant us seven more days to enable us complete investigations,” Wanyama told court.
Homa Bay Senior Principal Magistrate Thomas Obutu granted the orders.
The butcher was reportedly stabbed with a knife inside his butchery at about 9.35pm on Wednesday. The motive of the attack is unknown. Owiti’s body was moved to Homa Bay County Referral Hospital mortuary.  
A driver who was sacked by Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology has been awarded Sh342,316 for a breach of his contract.
Justice Stephen Radido of the Kisumu Employment and Labour court observed that Edwin Mutanda was fairly sacked for forging a work ticket and his argument that he was being victimised because he was a union official was untenable.
“The court finds that the summary dismissal of Mutanda was fair. But I will award him a sum for the breach of his employment contract,” said the judge last week.
Mutanda alleged that he was victimised on the grounds of his being a deputy secretary of the Kenya Universities Staff Union (KUSU) and for having agreed to be a witness in a criminal complaint against the vice-chancellor.
The university, however, contended that his dismissal was based on his negligence and careless performance of his duties. The particulars given were that he falsified a work ticket.
The court found out that the entries in the work ticket were deliberate and were meant to claim a higher daily subsistence allowance.
Mutanda challenged the university’s disciplinary process on several grounds, including that the committee was not properly constituted because “it was co-chaired by the VC and was thus biased.”
He also argued that trade union officials present during the hearing of his case did not represent his interest in the true letter and spirit of unionism.  
The hearing of a case in which Nandi Governor Stephen Sang has been accused of destroying a tea plantation worth Sh2 million was adjourned after he failed to appear in court over Covid-19 fears. 
Mr Sang was expected to appear in person for the start of the hearing of the case. 
Prosecution had lined up four witnesses to testify against him.
The governor’s lawyer June Maasai yesterday told Senior Resident Magistrate Beryl Omollo his client had exhibited Covid-19 symptoms and was in isolation. 
The accused was in close contact with the deceased when the deceased was still in hospital.
He was also in contact with some relatives during the burial preparations.
The court heard that the government had since conducted Covid-19 tests on officials and eight samples had turned positive.
The prosecution and lawyers representing the complainants in the case had protested over delays in the hearing of the case and claimed it had stalled for more than two years.
The prosecutor, Sylvester Thuo, backed the push to have the matter adjourned, but raised concerns over the slow process. 
The magistrate granted Sang an adjournment but directed that the court be supplied with a medical report on the governor’s health within two weeks. 
“The matter was first brought to court on June 2019. It now qualifies as a backlog,” said Thuo.
“The hearing date will be fixed on the next mention date,” said Omollo.  
Aman burned a relative's cow after he was denied a cup of milk in Bomwagamo, Nyamira County.
Nyambiri assistant chief Peter Oyange said the assailant later surrendered to the police and confessed to burning the lactating cow in the shed after being denied a cup of milk. 
The cow died in the inferno.
Mr Oyange is said to have executed the awful incident at around 4am on Tuesday while the owners were asleep.
It is yet to be established what charges police plan to charge the suspect with.
Nyamira County Commissioner Amos Mariba said there are concerns over rising cases of substance abuse among the youth that has contributed to an increase in cases of lawlessness in the county.
"We suspect such incidences could be linked to substance abuse among young people. Our fight against the vice is a notch higher and we hope to bring the situation under control," Mariba said.
This is the second incident involving the maiming or killing of animals to happen in the area within a period of less than two months.
In March, an unknown person moved into an elderly woman's homestead and slashed her pregnant heifer’s hind legs, rendering it immobile.
The once vibrant Yala town is now in the doldrums after the closure of Odera Akang’o College campus that gave it a lifeline.
When the campus that was a constituent college of Moi University was shut in 2019, the livelihoods of more than 50,000 people was affected.
The town, situated along Kisumu-Busia highway in Gem Sub-county, suffered as a result of closed businesses, deserted restaurants and vacant rental houses. 
Business people and residents now say the town has lost its glory.
“A lot of traders have closed their businesses,” said Peter Adhaya, chairman of Yala Young Traders Association.
“When the university was still operating, business was good. Students would do everything within Yala town. Now rental houses have been converted to guest rooms, but there are no customers,” said Mr Adhaya.
Those who had shops and eateries around the hostels and the university were the worst-hit.
Businessman Asis Awan, 62, who was born in Yala town, said businesses in the area have gone down by 50 per cent since the closure of Odera Akang’o College.
Awan said business people who spent millions of shillings to put up rental houses and hostels are counting losses since some of them had taken loans.
He revealed that his hardware business has not been spared as construction projects have stalled or gone down.
Mr Awan, a member of the National Committee of Chamber of Commerce and Siaya branch representative, said there was no hope of businesses getting better.
Agnes Achieng, a vegetable vendor who had a stall just opposite the college where several hostels are situated, said she had to move to the market centre to start all over again.
“I stayed at home for two months trying to strategise. My vegetable business collapsed in 2019. I had a stall where most of the students were living and when all of them finally left, my business collapsed,” said Achieng.
The campus was launched in 2008 as a satellite campus with only 32 students.
The college did not receive government-sponsored students from Moi University for some years, but managed to admit privately sponsored learners.
Before its closure, the college had received an ultimatum from the Commission of University Education that it risked closure if the management did not get 50 hectares of land for expansion after an inspection in 2016.
The Commission of University Education had given the campus a timeline of two years to ensure all the requirements were met by February 2018 when another inspection was to be conducted before a final decision was made.
Odera Akang’o College campus, which currently sits on six hectares, had 1,142 privately sponsored students at the time of its closure. 
In a bid to beat the closure warning, the college had received 90 hectares in Nyamininia near Yala.
The county government committed Sh35 million two years ago to help improve, construct and refurbish the campus structures and it was to offer tuition scholarships to its staff in return.
However, Moi University administration pulled out, letting go all the workers who had remained at the campus, forcing it to close.
But there have been plans by other higher learning institutions seeking to take over the college.
Karachuonyo constituency ODM officials have told political leaders to end clan politics in Homa Bay County.
Addressing journalists at a Homa Bay hotel on Sunday, ODM chairpersons from the six wards in Karachuonyo Constituency and the constituency chair have denounced clan politics if the county is to elect a good governor.
The leaders were speaking after claims by some contenders that the Rachuonyo clan which comprises Karachuonyo, Kasipul and Kabondo-Kasipul constituencies will decide who becomes the next Homa Bay governor in 2022 because of their numerical advantage.
They argued that Rachuonyo clan has more voters than other clans in the county. 
 Kendu Bay Town Ward chairman Justus Osumba said the narrative is outdated and divisive, adding that cannot the county has eight constituencies.
He argued that three constituencies alone cannot make a candidate win a gubernatorial seat.
Osumba said there is a need for Rachuonyo clan to welcome gubernatorial candidates from other constituencies.
“We are only three constituencies hence our sons and daughters who want to vie for the seat cannot succeed without the support of voters from other constituencies,” Osumba said.
The senior citizen said clannism will deny the county good candidates for the County top seat, adding that all candidates are welcomed to the larger Karachuonyo region.
“All those with desirable leadership qualities to ascend to power should do their campaigns across the county without discrimination,” said Osumba.
Karachuonyo Constituency Joshua Maena said politics of incitement and discrimination had been overtaken by events.
He said there is a need for politics of inclusivity to enable Homa Bay to get a good governor after the 2022 General Election.
“Let us stop discriminating people. This type of politics is obsolete,” said Maena.
He cautioned leaders against branding others as 'outsiders' during politics to achieve their selfish political interests.
“You find a man who has lived in an area since childhood is branded an outsider when he ventures into politics. Segregation is wrong,” Odero said.
Some of the political leaders who are eyeing the county gubernatorial include Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata, Woman Rep Gladys Wanga, County Secretary Isaiah Ogwe, businessman Jared Otieno, former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, KUPPET Secretary General Akello Misori, ODM National Chairman John Mbadi and politician Luis Otieno.
They want to succeed Governor Cyprian Awiti who is serving his second term.
Two children were killed after their house collapsed at Ururi village, Bondo Sub-County, on Saturday morning.
The two, Juliana Achieng', 2, and Mary Achieng’,12, were sleeping in the house together with their parents when the incident happened.
Their father, Fredrick Achieng’, who survived the tragedy, told The Standard that the incident happened at around midnight.
"Our roof was first blown off before the walls collapsed on us, killing our two children," said Achieng’.
He said villagers who rushed to the scene after they heard screams rescued them.
He appealed to well-wishers to help him get shelter and meet the burial expenses for his two children.
The bodies were taken to Bondo sub-county hospital mortuary.
The late Keziah Obama has today been laid to rest at her Kogelo village in Siaya county. 
The late Keziah was the mother of former US President Barack Obama’s half-brother, Malik Abong’o Obama.
She died on April 13, 2021, while receiving treatment at a UK-based hospital.
Mama Keziah was the spouse of the late Barack Obama senior. She was 78 years at the time of her death.
Her body arrived in Kenya on Friday morning before it was transported to Kogelo where she was buried.
Malik, who is the eldest son while speaking on behalf of the family eulogised his mother as a loving and responsible woman.
Among leaders who attended the burial were; Siaya Deputy Governor James Okumbe, Senator James Orengo and Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo.
Speakers eulogised mama Keziah as an inspiring woman, who had brought up a great family.
Orengo said his relationship with the Obama family dates back to the years when Senior Barack Obama was alive.
He described the late Senior Obama as a reputable economist.
Orengo said the late Senior Obama was among the team of economic specialists who worked on the sessional paper number 10 of 1969 that guided the development of Kenya for decades.
"He was a great scholar who did his studies in several universities and later returned to Kenya where he worked as an economist in the Ministry of economic planning. He worked with other great ministers who were also my friends like the late Tom Mboya," he said.
MP Otiende said the Obama family has elevated Kenya to the international map by producing the first black president in the US.
"This is one family that has given us so much pride. We are on the international map because of them. Their son, former US President  Obama put us on an international map," noted Otiende.
Deputy Governor  Okumbe also described the Obama's as a great family that had uplifted not only the image of the country but Siaya county as well.
Okumbe said he is a friend to the family through Auma  Obama who was his great friend.
"Auma and I have done a lot of development projects, especially for the Kogelo family. She has always invited me for her functions for the community where she gives back through projects," added Okumbe.
The late Mama Keziah was buried a few minutes after 1pm in accordance with the Muslim rites.
Two security guards were on Thursday night brutally murdered at Ndondi market centre in Alego Usonga, Siaya County.
Baragulu assistant chief Maurice Abudha said they also found the body of another watchman who was manning a building with a shop and a bar.
The two were manning a local bar and hardware store at the market centre. 
"The two watchmen were killed by robbers who broke into the shop and hardware store. They got away with a lot of goods from both the shop and hardware store," he said.
The bodies of the two watchmen had deep machete cuts on the head.
Siaya OCPD Bernard Muriuki said the police had launched investigations to nab the culprits.
"I cannot give details at this time. We have just started the investigation," he said.
Meanwhile, residents in the area have called for increased police patrols, citing increasing cases of insecurity.
Martha Awino, a businesswoman at the centre, said several shops were broken into and goods stolen last month.
She said a watchman was killed at the market centre last year. 
The perennial water shortage in Homa Bay town will finally end after the Lake Victoria South Water Works Development Agency (LVSWWDA) purchased Sh200 million water distribution equipment to fix it. 
The equipment imported from Belgium includes steel water pipes, water pumps and other items used for constructing water supply systems.
 LVSWWDA chairperson Dan Omino and Homa Bay Water Sewerage and Sanitation Company managing director Evans Nyagol received the consignment on Thursday, April 29.
Omino said the equipment will complete a mega water project christened, Homa Bay Cluster Water Supply Project, funded by the National Government in collaboration with Belgium through the LVSWWDA.
Homa Bay town, the administrative headquarter of the county, face shortage with the current water treatment plant producing only 2.5 million litres per day instead of the required 5 million litres.
Omino said once completed, the new project will produce 8.8 million litres of water per day.
He said the project will meet the needs of the growing population of the area residents for the next 20 years.
“This project will produce excess water which will take care of the needs of the growing population for the next 20 years. This means a shortage of water can only occur in this area after two decades,” said Omino.
Omino added that the project will majorly use solar energy to pump the water.
“Electricity will only be used where there is no solar energy. But we intend to rely on solar,” he said.
The major component of the project encompasses piping of water from Lake Victoria to a treatment plant to produce clean water which is to be pumped to the residents’ taps for consumption.
He said the agency is about to complete another component of the project in Rodi Kopany Township which will produce 400,000 litres of water through two boreholes
Nyagol said pumping of water using solar will prevent huge electricity bills which had impeded their efforts in the past.
The electricity bills had frequently disrupted the water supply when Kenya Power disconnected their power supply.
“We are going to supply water stably upon completion of this mega project and water shortage will be history here,” Nyagol said.
He told residents to be ready to receive water from the project.
The project which started in March 2019 is expected to end in November this year.
The Nubian community has called on authorities to improve conditions at a field in Kolwa, Kisumu County, where they are living in makeshift structures after they were evicted from a disputed land.
They have also urged the county government to expedite the process of resettling them. 
Kenya Railways (KR) has laid claim to the land in Kibos, which the Nubians say was given to them by the colonial government in 1937. 
The field, next to Kisumu East CDF office, is prone to floods that have made life difficult, especially for the elderly.
KR accused them of encroaching on land meant for expansion of the railway line and forcefully evicted them.
The Nubians say their eviction was illegal.
They were moved to the land where they are currently living by the Kisumu City authorities. 
“We had lived on the land since 1937 before we were forcefully evicted. It has been tough for some of us, especially those of us who are elderly,” said 82-year-old Khadija Rajab.
The 850 people have been living in deplorable conditions for three months now since they were evicted from what KR says was a railway reserve.
“We did not expect this. But if we must move out so the railway can be expanded, then the government should compensate us,” she said.
Rajab said other than floods, they have to contend will mosquitoes and rodents.  
She wondered why they were taken to the flood-prone field, a move she said has complicated their lives.
They have been depending on Kenya Red Cross Society, relatives and well wishers for food.
Abdi Asha, 39, called for justice saying KR had no right to take away their land. 
“We are Kenyans by birth and deserve fair treatment,” Asha said.
Most of those living on the 18 acres belonging to the county government cannot fend for themselves.
Acting City Manager Abala Wanga said the county government has started the process of resettling the Nubians.
In the meantime, Wanga said they had built three tents to improve their living conditions and were in the process of controlling floods at the site. 
Hassan Hussein, an elder, said they were happy the county government had started settling them, but urged the authorities to expedite the process.
Last month, the Environment and Land Court extended conservatory orders stopping KR from forcefully evicting the Nubians from the land.
This followed a petition by Fatuma Bilal, Rashid Sadii, Mohamed Abdulrahman, Mwanamisi Kinduli, Yaya Musa and Asaman Musa filed on behalf of the community.
Man killed by crocodile in Lake Victoria, another survives attack
A family in Wigwa village in Kisumu County has been left in grief after their kin was killed by a crocodile in Lake Victoria.
Gabriel Okoth Oduogo, 35, was on a fishing expedition in the company of his friend when the incident happened at Nyandiwa beach.
His friend survived the attack but the incident caused panic all the way to Dunga beach where the fishermen trade.
Eyewitnesses said the crocodile emerged from a nearby papyrus weed on the shoreline before it attacked the deceased by grabbing him.
''He was attacked by the reptile in the morning in the company of others who had gone to lay fishing nets to harvest fish,” Saitoti Ayoro said.
He cried for help as his shaken colleagues ran for their lives before they gathered courage a few minutes later to hurl stones at the reptile as it swam and dived in the water.
The fishermen later swam to safety at Dunga beach where they reported the incident to the locals and Kenya Wildlife Service(KWS) personnel who dashed to the scene in search of the body.
This is the second time a crocodile has attacked a fisherman in the lake in less than a month and more intriguingly from the same family.
According to the deceased sister Caroline Owuor Oduogo, just two weeks ago, one of her brothers Nick Owino Oduogo was attacked by a crocodile while on a fishing expedition.
Owino luckily escaped with injuries after the crocodile attacked him while fishing in the lake in the broad daylight.
His father Joseph Oduogo was at pains to come to terms with the tragedy.
He said he got the sad news while visiting Owino who suffered injuries on his leg and hand that were mauled by the reptile.
''One of Owino's fingers was bitten as he struggled to free himself from the tight grip of the crocodile’s jaws and now again his brother has been killed by the reptile. Why does this happen to my family,'' he sobbed.
He recalled it was just by good luck that Owino's colleagues who were on the boat by then tying a rope responded by pelting the reptile head with huge stones and a panga.
The victim was rushed to Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Referral Hospital where he is undergoing treatment after his lucky escape as the search for Okoth's body continued.
Owino's sister Owuor, said her brother was still writhing in pain in a hospital bed and had lost a lot of blood due to excessive bleeding from the mauled hand and leg.
"He needs three pints of blood because he bled a lot," said Owuor.
County police commander Samwel Anampiu said he had deployed security personnel to control crowds building at the scene.
Dunga Beach Management Unit chair Joel Otieno blamed the attacks by crocodiles on an increase in fishing activities in the lake.
wo men were on Thursday arrested in Migori while transporting bread alleged to be lighter than the industrially accepted weight.
The suspects, a driver and a salesperson, were transporting the loaves of bread in 50 crates from a Kisii bakery.
The bread was to be supplied to shops and supermarkets in Migori Town.
Residents had filed complaints about the weight of bread they had been buying from local shops, stating the brand from the Kisii bakery was “notorious” for selling them low-weight bread.
The consumer protection department officers laid a trap with police and impounded the vehicle as soon as it arrived in Migori Town.
When 770 samples of the packaged loaves were weighed, the scale indicated that each loaf was 365 grams instead of the industrially-accepted 400 grams.
The inspector in charge of commercial goods weight in Migori, Tobias Nyakamo, told The Standard that the suspects will be charged with contravening Part Six of the Consumer Protection Act.
The Ministry of Trade in Migori said it will conduct impromptu inspections to ensure goods sold to consumers meet the requisite standards.
The Consumer Protection Act allows the Consumer Protection Department to investigate complaints relating to false or misleading representations, unconscionable conduct as well as supply of unsafe, defective and unsuitable goods.
The Department also investigates undertakings that fail to comply with prescribed Consumer Product Safety Standards and prescribed Product Information Standards
Consumers can complain directly to the Authority through Email, telephone call,s or walking into the Authority’s offices.
The consumer is required to fill in a consumer complaint form and provide all the relevant information concerning the complaint.
On receipt of a consumer complaint, the Consumer Protection Department will acknowledge receipt of the complaint and advise the consumer on any information gaps.
Upon receipt of all the information from the complainant, the Authority shall analyse the complaint and contact the accused party for information if necessary.
The Authority may then apply administrative remedies to solve the complaints which include: refund, replacement or repair of goods, withdrawal of misleading representations, recall of unsafe goods and notices to the public on the existence of such goods.
Complaints that do not fall under the Authority’s jurisdiction are referred to the relevant Government Agencies.
Complaints that are not solved under the above arrangement are forwarded to the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (ODPP) after the completion of full investigations.
Upon conviction, a person who contravenes the Part Six provisions of the Act is liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to a fine not exceeding Sh10 million or both.
A miner has died and 300 families were displaced by floods following heavy rains that have hit Migori County.
Most of those affected are from North Kadem ward in Nyatike sub-County. They are currently camping in schools and churches.
The victims said they have also lost property, including livestock, that was swept away by floods.
West Kanyuor chief Philip Opolo said flooding got worse after Migori and Kuja rivers broke their banks, and expressed fears more people will be displaced.
He said a gold miner, identified as George Oriedo, died on Monday evening after walls of a mine in Mikeyi collapsed on him.
Witnesses said Oriedo went into the mine soon after the rains had stopped then the accident happened.
“The walls of the mine had been weakened by the water. They collapsed and he suffocated,” Jared Nyakie, a head teacher at Ndemra Primary School, said.
“The floods have affected livelihoods. We are appealing for relief food to feed those affected,” chief Opolo said.
He added that the floods have not halted the construction works of a Sh1.7 billion road in the area.
Engineers working on the 42-kilometre Masara-Sori road have however been forced to seek government approval to redesign a section of the road, around North Kadem ward, that is affected by the floods.
Nyanza Regional Commissioner Magu Mutindika said 25 kilometres have been turned into bitumen standard road.
The remaining 17 kilometres will form part of what would be redesigned. 
“The area has been affected by floods and this has forced the contractor and government engineers to seek approvals to redesign that part of the road,” Mutindika said.
He said the redesigned road will see flood waters escape through culverts.
“The works will include diversions and more gravelling in affected areas,” he said.
Two suspects charged with manslaughter in a case where a 10-storey building collapsed in Kisii killing eight people in November 2016 have been freed.
Jeremiah Matoke and Jeff Ocharo faced eight counts of manslaughter. 
They were accused that on November 10, 2016, at Kisii Municipality block 111/236 in Kisii town, they unlawfully and negligently caused the deaths of the eight people.
Kisii Chief Magistrate Nathan Lutta noted that in a criminal case, the duty was always on the prosecution to prove its case against an accused beyond a reasonable doubt.
“From the evidence produced in court, it is not demonstrated that the said parcel belongs to the accused,” Lutta said.
Patrick Achoki, the County Director of Physical Planning, said an inspection on the collapsed building was done in September 2014.
At the time, Achoki said they did not have a record of approved buildings. “We requested the owner to submit the plans, which were later approved.”
The then National Construction Authority regional manager, Lucas Adwera, testified that they visited the site in July 2016 and found out that there was a lack of compliance and immediately issued a suspension notice.
The accused persons, however, denied the offences saying they were not the developers of the said property.
With the ruling, the affected families will be forced to explore other means to get justice.
Burundi President to attend Madaraka Day celebrations
Burundi President Evariste Ndayishimiye will jet into the country on Monday, May 31 to attend Tuesday’s Madaraka Day celebrations.
According to sources within the government, President Ndayishimiye might be the only foreign Head of State to grace the ceremony, which will be held in Kisumu County.
East African Community (EAC) recently named President Ndayishimiye as rapporteur while President Kenyatta was chosen as the community’s chairperson.
In June 2020, President Kenyatta congratulated Ndayishimiye on his election as President and pledged to work with him, saying Burundi was Kenya’s valued development partner.
The visit comes after a similar one to Uganda on May 13 to woo Ugandan investors to invest in Burundi.
This year’s Madaraka Day celebrations will be an invite-only event as part of the Covid-19 measures.
Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o said only 3,000 guests have been invited to attend the celebrations.
“Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium can accommodate 35,000 people, however, we have only invited 3,000 which is about 10 per cent of the entire capacity. This is in line with the Covid-19 protocols,” said Governor Nyong’o.
This is the first time Kisumu will host a national ceremony.
Previously, the holidays were presided over in Nairobi until the Jubilee regime revised the trend to rotate the celebrations in counties.
Madaraka Day is celebrated every year on June 1 to commemorate the day Kenya attained internal self-rule in 1963 after colonisation from Britain.
Rescue efforts on following collapse of county building in Nyamira
Rescuers were last evening working against time to find survivors after the collapse of a Nyamira County Assembly building that was under construction.
By 6.30pm, 25 workers out of 35 that were working at the site before it came tumbling down had been rescued.
The building at the county assembly collapsed minutes past 5pm.
Nyamira County Commissioner Gikaro Mariba told The Standard on phone that authorities were doing all they could to rescue those trapped.
"The rescue mission is ongoing. Locals and a combined team of government rescuers are on site to help those trapped," Mariba said.
The staircase to the four-storey building collapsed as the workers prepared to leave the site after the day's work.
The main road in Kitutu Masaba constituency has for a long time been used as a political carrot to woo locals into voting for politicians who pledge to tarmac it.
For over three decades, the Amabuko-Rigoma-Magombo-Kemera road has made and unmade politicians, as many have used it as a campaign tool.
Nearly all the MPs who have been elected from Kitutu Masaba have pledged to have the road tarmacked from Kemera town, where it connects with the Kisii-Nyamira-Chemosit road to Amabuko shopping centre where it joins the Kisii-Keroka-Sotik-Nairobi highway.
It is not only MPs who have used the road as a political tool to win votes from residents; other leaders who have been eyeing other political seats have also used it.
The late President Daniel Moi, retired President Mwai Kibaki and President Uhuru Kenyatta all used it as a campaign tool.
During Moi’s era, the road was marked for upgrading to bitumen standard but this did not happen because of the political winds of the time. Former area MP, the late George Anyona, became a fierce critic of Moi.
At one time, Anyona had promised to repair the road but because of lack of political goodwill from the government, that did not happen.
President Kibaki also pledged to have it finished around 2010, but the road was never upgraded.
Having the road tarmacked remained a pipe dream until 2013 when the work began.
Uhuru and his Deputy William Ruto, while campaigning in 2013 ahead of the General Election, also earmarked the project for construction.
And in 2017, construction works on the road stalled at Gekano Tea Buying Centre after the contractor terminated the works.
The other section near River Gucha bridge and a 15-kilometre stretch remain incomplete.
Area MP Shadrack Mose has been fighting to have the road completed before his term expires. His plan seems to succeed as a contractor is already the site to do the job.
Currently, survey works are being carried out by a Chinese company, which was given the contract.
“This is a very important road, which no one can ignore. Tea farmers in the area have faced difficulties in transporting their produce to the factories because of the poor state of the road. Such challenges will soon be a thing of the past,” Mose said.
Residents say completion of the road will give the area MP an upper hand in the 2022 polls.
“Mose will have higher chances of re-election if he pushes the government to finish the project before next year,” said Peter Mokua, a resident of Gekano. 
Oscars pushed back to April 2021 as film industry scrambles to adapt amid coronavirus
Film's most prestigious award has had to be postponed after the industry took a major blow amid coronavirus.
The Oscars ceremony for 2021 has been shifted back by nearly two months after the majority of films since March this year had to be put on hold.
It has been moved from a February 28th to an April 25th date.This move should accommodate early 2021 releases, delayed because of the pandemic.
President of the Academy, David Rubin, and CEO Dawn Hudson, said of their decision: “For over a century, movies have played an important role in comforting, inspiring and entertaining us during the darkest of times.
"Our hope, in extending the eligibility period and our awards date, is to provide the flexibility filmmakers need to finish and release their films without being penalized for something beyond anyone's control."
The new date’s means nominations will be announced on March 15th 2021, with the submission deadline for general entry categories (which includes Best Picture) on January 15th.
It is yet another blow to music fans as Kenya mourns popular Benga artiste Erick Omondi who died of cancer in Bondo, Siaya County on Tuesday morning.
The death of the ex-member of the legendary Nabi Kings Band popularly referred to by his fans as "Long Lilo" has gutted his fans.
The 37-year-old father of three died at 4:30 am while undergoing treatment at Bondo Sub-County Hospital.
His wife Goretty Awino and family spokesperson Olima Gondi confirmed the death.
Long Lilo thrilled his fans with his husky voice and engaging lyrics during his prime days when he sang alongside Osito Kalle, another legendary Luo Benga icon who trained him.
Some of his hit songs include Goretti Awino, Were wuod Ogalo, Okoth Mang’ang’a, Kong’o shida, Anita Nyausonga , Thomas Mwaya and any more. In his song Japuonj, Omondi praises Osito Kalle for his ability to nurture other singers like himself, Odhiambo Tusker, Aluoch Pamba, Atommy Sifa, Ogina Koko (currently Ramogi FM presenter) and many others. 
 Odhiambo Tusker after graduating from the hands of Osito composed a hit song Jopuonj, a piece which praised the efforts of teachers in the society and received widespread acclamation among the Luo fan base.
Osito who mentored them also starred with other songs such as Lesna buoyo ma wiye, Asembo piny maber, Jaber jaula and much more.
Long’Lilo was reportedly ill with cancer for a long time and at some point was appealing for medical help.
His death comes barely a week after Luo Ohangal fans were shocked with the sudden death of Abenny Jachiga who died in Kisumu abruptly and was buried with less than 48 yours against the wishes of his fans.
Nothing shakes the conscience of mankind than an unexplained death of a celebrity.
Ken Walibora was not your ordinary celebrity pushed to fame by benevolent spirits.
At the time of his death, he was one of the most celebrated Swahili writers in Kenya and one of the universally acclaimed authors.
Lovers of literature are pained not just by his death but the brutal manner in which it came. 
Such death is reserved for troublesome characters in literary works.
In such extra ordinary circumstances, the people of Khabondi would seek solace in the emotive Luhya dirge “Olumbe luno toto lwakhabere lurungungwa, mana lukhaya khwira, ndakhaluwere ing’ombe!” translated to mean “If death could be paid to spare someone, I would have given death a cow”.
Admittedly, I have never physically met Walibora.
I first knew him in Standard Seven in primary school when my Kiswahili teacher Peter Busolo insisted that I read Siku Njema and explain the synopsis to him in seven days.
By that time, Siku Njema was a compulsory Kiswahili set book in secondary school, but here was a village-bred juvenile being asked to interpret it.
Mr Busolo understood the kind of books that would inspire students’ passion.
That was the last time he asked me to read any of Walibora’s books. 
I took it upon myself to monitor the author’s publications and read them. 
Walibora was a gifted story teller who understood an African village with magic.
Our continuous interaction has been through his works.
His characters lived among us.
Walibora wrote about things that we could see in our daily lives as students. Most of his characters were an inspiration. 
I drew quite a number of lessons from Walibora’s works that have guided me to date.
In his master piece Siku Njema, Walibora demystifies the long held African concept of illegitimate children with a single phrase “Mwanaharamu hamna, kitendo ndicho cha haramu” to mean “there is no illegitimate child, it is the act that is illegitimate”.
Walibora’s main character in Siku Njema, Msanifu Kombo happens to be such a child. Through him, we are exposed to traumatising experiences that single mothers and their children go through.
The contempt with which society treats such children, and above all, their determination to succeed amid such challenges.
 Perhaps it is because of his humble upbringing or the strict Christian upbringing under Jehova’s Witness denomination.
In my teaching of Children Law, I have found myself citing Walibora more than any other literary scholar. 
 His contribution to jurisprudence cannot be gainsaid.
As a lawyer, I draw inspiration from Walibora’s book Kufa Kuzikana, translated by Prof Egara Kabaji et al as “Friends for Life”.
In this text, a litigant who has made several trips to a lawyer’s office to claim money paid to the lawyer by an insurance company after an accident eventually commits suicide when the lawyer becomes uncooperative.
The mastery of African idioms runs through his works. 
Such lawyers within the legal circles are known as ambulance chasers. They exist in every corner of this country; taking advantage of victims of accidents to mint millions of shillings. 
My prayer is that the fate of Walibora’s characters will not befall him in death.
In such a society as ours, it calls for the courage and sobriety of men like Walibora to expose the social evils bedeviling mankind.
The social pretense, political expediency and economic marginalisation are some of the things that informed Walibora’s works.
The simplicity with which he told complex stories reveals the character of a man who was attached to society.
 The soils will consume the finest brains of our land.
Literature can be very predictive. Many things that Walibora wrote about have come to pass. His death and burial resemble that of the characters he wrote about. 
In William Shakespeare’s words, my heart is in that grave where Walibora’s remains are being preserved.
Blessed are the soils of that quiet village in Cherangany, where Walibora was laid to rest. 
To your fans, we shall remain friends wa Kufa Kuzikana as we wait for that Siku Njema that we shall join you wherever you are! 
May his soul rest in peace.
Hyrax Hills National Museum, one of Kenya’s critical archaeological sites and a national monument is marking 100 years of existence this month.
The famous archaeological site which has since placed Kenya as home of Early Man opened its doors in 1920, to host rich history and has since inspired history and geography lessons in schools.
The museum was declared a national monument in 1945, but opened its doors to the public in 1965.
“This month marks 100 years of existence of this archaeological site that is just another classroom for thousands of learners across the country who visit,” Lilian Amwada, the museum’s curator said.
And while the museum has been a source of knowledge on early humans, the number of visitors touring the site has been low, a move which has also seen a raft of initiatives in place to boost the numbers.
“We have carried out renovations and also initiated talent programmes for children in a bid to make the young learners visit the museum more for key lessons,” Ms Amwada said.
Hyrax, is part of the part of the critical, geologically rich areas in Rift Valley that provides tales of  historical footprints left behind by Early Man. 
 It also boasts of a rich history of volcanic activities and information on the formation of the Rift Valley.
The site, is also part of patches of archaeological sites that makes Kenya and especially the Rift Valley a hotbed of archaeological discoveries alongside Kariandusi Archeological site in Gilgil.
Particularly, Hyrax hills museum is named after hyraxes that lived in the rocks within and is famous for keeping the history of Sirikwa people who are believed to have been assimilated with the Maasai community.
The museum, has since been an archaeological research area and reference point for pre-historical investigations.
It is also believed to be the first Acheulian site to be discovered in the region.
Records from the museum however reveal low visitation despite the critical role in education sector with the bulk of visitors being learners.
In 2016, Hyrax Hills National Museum recorded 21,781 visitors of whom 17,667 were learners from primary, secondary and institutions of higher learning.
In 2018, the museum generated Sh1.6 million while in 2019, total revenues amounted Sh1.7 million.
The same year, the museum generated Sh1.8 million and the following year, the revenues dropped slightly to Sh1.6 million with over 23,000 visitors making to the museum.
Primary and secondary school learners mostly visit the museum with records showing that 12,169 learners from primary and secondary school visited the museum.
5,498 students from colleges and universities visited the museum the same year.
Locals visiting the museum are mostly couples visiting for nature trails. 
With charges as low as Sh100 for an adult local citizen and Sh50 for a child charged in these sites, locals still miss out with visitors barely making to 30,000 in a year.  
The Hyrax hills was proclaimed a national monument in 1945 and opened to public in 1965 but despite the significance it has, it has lost two and a half acres of its over 50 acres of land to squatters. 
According to the National Lands Commission Nakuru County coordinator Frank Kimbelekenya, part of the land has been grabbed.
Covid-19 has given a new lease of life to an old song about social distancing.
Micah Maritim (pictured) the singer who composed the song 18 years ago, is also basking in new-found glory.
In the 10-minute song, Maritim warns about a certain incurable disease, urging his listeners to literally run to the hills for safety. 
“Don’t let anyone touch you/ even when you are in bed sleeping/ Don’t brush shoulders with anyone even when you are walking around/ Don’t shake hands with anyone; and why should you? do you know that the person has come from or touched....?” Goes part of the chorus. 
The 62-year-old singer from Bomet County is known for his social commentary.
He said he composed the uncharacteristically lengthy song in 2002. 
“At the time, I was in Eldoret and television channels were awash with reports of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) which had broken out in China and was spreading to other countries,” Maritim said.
“From the scary news clip I saw medics in protective gear attending to patients, and outside, police officers were chasing people off the streets. It was then that I decided to compose a song about this phenomenon.”
He says that he did not even sit down to write lyrics to the song titled “SARS”.
Maritim started singing in 1981 and has a repertoire of over 100. 
He says he just entered the studio and “went with the flow”. 
“What scared me was China’s directive outlawing spitting. I dreaded what would happen in Kenya if SARS got here, considering that members of the Kalenjin community have a habit of spitting all over the place,” Maritim said. 
Though the song got considerable airtime, Maritim says he is surprised by the renewed interest in the song in the face of Covid-19. 
The singer blasted Kenyans for disregarding the government directives on containment of Covid-19. 
“The world managed to beat SARS and Ebola by adhering to prescribed safety measures. Here, we are just dancing with death,” he said. 
When asked whether he was living up to his own message of staying safe as per his message in the song, he said: “My brother, have you spotted me in the streets lately? I have confined myself to my house as a matter of fact.” 
Maritim argued that according to him there is no difference between SARS and Covid-19. 
“It is the same disease, just diffident names. You just look at the symptoms and the origins and it’s the same thing.
“During SARS people were advised to practice social distancing and those infected were quarantined.
“We were also told to wash our hands and cover our mouths while coughing. Aren’t we now being told the same things?” he said. 
The only difference he said is that people are now being asked to wear gloves for protection. 
Maritim said since Covid-19 knocked the dust off his song, someone who was listening to it for the first time accused him of “bringing” the disease to Kenya. 
“I did not ‘call’ the disease. I have never travelled to China. I just did a song to educate them to practice social distancing whenever the world is ravaged by a disease whose cure is not known,” he said, and called on Kenyans to heed the government’s directive on social distancing. 
“If the government directs that there should be no handshaking, why should we defy such a simple order? Can’t we just salute like military officers and everyone goes his or her way. Why do we want to kill each other with foolishness?” he posed.
The mark of a great book is often its ability to provoke robust debates and force readers to confront uncomfortable content.
 Kenyan, Christian, Queer by the academic Adriaan Van Klinken provides a way to imagine a future continent where members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) community can exercise their rights to dignity, voice, agency, space and health without fear of stigma, harassment and worse.
The author is a leading voice in LGBTI studies, with a special focus on the role of religion, in particular African Christianity.
In Kenyan, Christian, Queer he presents an ethnographic study of the Kenyan queer community, one that is creating space for its own church and queer theology in a homophobic social, religious and political environment.
Van Klinken wades into a controversial subject to document an array of queer creative practices. In doing so, he advances LGBTI studies.
This eloquently written book bravely pushes boundaries.
It is remarkable in style and clarity but also brings out the author’s own vulnerabilities, strengths and compassion as an HIV positive gay scholar and activist.
I have known and worked with him for a long time, and this book marks a shift from abstract and academic writing to a creative documentary about the very personal lives of real people. It straddles the gap between academia and LGBTI activism.
The book is also a departure from despair and crippling homophobia.
It records the experiences of people who refuse to be hopeless victims: people with hope and urgency, who navigate between resistance and human flourishing, creating more space for community and affirmation. 
It allows its subjects to tell their own stories.
The book examines four cases: activism through art, such as the works of the late Binyavanga Wainaina; music by the gay gospel artiste George Barasa; the Stories of Our Lives anthology of short films; and the Cosmopolitan Affirming Church in Nairobi.
In each of these, the author shows how LGBTI actors have reclaimed visibility and engaged Christian beliefs, texts and symbols.
The use of case studies allows for rich and in-depth examinations of the ways in which the LGBTI community in Nairobi is reclaiming social, political, cultural, spiritual and artistic spaces.
Wainaina took on Christian clergy and homophobes, calling them out for their hypocrisy, in particular Pentecostal Christianity.
He made this a personal struggle in which he came out as gay and used his body as a site for resistance, vulnerability, acceptance and rejection.
His activism gave impetus to the LGBTI community in Kenya and further afield and his death continued to provoke debates about LGBTI issues.
The video of the song Same Love (Remix) by Art Attack caused huge excitement in the Kenyan artistic and social scene.
The song is about LGBTI struggles, gender equality and civil liberties.
Yet the song serves as a space for political and theological activism. 
It serves as a beautiful cultural expression of African queer politics – and was promptly banned by Kenya’s Film Control Board.
The song crossed social, theological and cultural boundaries and focused attention on the theology of radical and non-normative love.
Rap music has long been used as a space for protest and activism.
Stories of Our Lives by the Nest, a Nairobi-based arts collective, is a collection of personal stories based on interviews with ordinary gay people.
Like Same Love, it was promptly banned by the film board, a body that has frequently frustrated Kenya’s creativity in the guise of protecting the nation’s moral fabric.
The more the film is banned, the more it is downloaded.
 It addresses themes such as identity, love, sex, faith and spirituality, stories that capture the diversity of contemporary Kenyan queer lives and their day-to-day experiences.
Personal stories are not just authentic, they are also empowering and affirming. They give voice and impetus to communities in struggle.
The last case study is that of the Cosmopolitan Affirming Church, a social and spiritual space where members of the LGBTI community can practise their faith in community with each other.
It is a safe space to create gay and radical theologies; a space for acceptance and love. 
It is a space where faith and radical love and sexuality meet.
Van Klinken identifies with the struggles of his research subjects but was able to maintain some distance when writing about them.
This is the kind of book I will read again and again as a straight, Christian, female academic and commentator.
I will happily share it not just with my students and library but also with those who would like to better understand these contested lives and spaces.
Many spiritual leaders need to read it to understand that LGBTI communities are creating their own spaces of worship where they find love and acceptance of their humanity as children of God.
This book evokes many feelings but also forces one to confront one’s own uninformed biases.
It’s a good read for those who often shout the loudest, without sufficient understanding of LGBTI lives.
Mike Rua (pictured), the self-proclaimed king of Mugithi, says he lives for the vulgar.
Rua, who has built his popularity in the music industry by spitting lyrics that raise more than eyebrows on stage, says he cannot change his style of music.
He says his attempt to tone down has seen him clash with his fans.
 He now says he will take it a notch higher and his new composition will be even more lewd.
He recalls how in 2012, during a music tour in Dubai, police were called on him on allegations that he was impersonating Mike Rua.
After a two-hour performance at an event attended by hundreds of Kenyans in the diaspora, Rua was accosted by the police.
A fan had complained that the man who performed was not Rua.
Police told him that the Rua the fans knew and the Rua who had performed that night were two different people. 
They felt they had not received a good dose of his music after he decided to tone down his wordings.
The same message has been told by his fans in Nairobi who have asked him to go back to the original Rua – the man who spits venom on stage. 
The Kikuyu benga artiste is, however, bidding good bye to performing songs composed by other musicians.
“This is what my fans want. I have to give them what they demand for otherwise I will be out of business,” he says.
He says he has in the past found himself brushing shoulders with the police over copyright infringement.
Rua has risen to fame by remixing compositions by other musicians, which he twists to make almost a new composition.
He says remixing will now be a thing of the past.
He has hit the studio to record new songs, including one titled Kiarie, which is already out.
And true to his spirit and motto, he has spiced up the new album with a tinge of vulgarities.
In an interview with the Saturday Standard at his Syokimau home, Rua says media houses had at first almost shunned the composition on the basis that it was lewd.
But things changed when the album, which is complete with a video, became a hit on social media and is now popularly played in many vernacular FM radio stations.
Rua says ‘Kiarie’, which in Kikuyu means wide, is based on his real life experience.
It is the story of a young man, struggling to make it in life and ends up cohabiting with a sugar mummy.
And the sugar mummy at times confuses him (Rua) with Kiarie.
But this is not all about the song as is expected of Rua.
He tantalises the composition with a hidden message of his love life to the sugar mummy and there in fits the hidden message of ‘Kiarie’.
The composition leaves it to the listener to decode which ‘Kiarie’ he is referring to.
Apart from Rua, other upcoming Kikuyu musicians such as Samuel Ndirangu, alias Samido, are giving the veterans a run for their money.
Samido is famed for his songs Wendo wi Cama (love is sweet) and Murata wa Ngai (Friend of God), which have been topping the FM airwaves. 
He did Wendo wi Cama together with Joys wa Mama.
Jose Gatutura is another sensation.
The musical star of the Machete hit maker has been rising with every new release.
Among his prominent songs are Tuirio twega (good food), Mwari wa Muthamaki (Daughter of a king) and Haha ni Gute (this is vanity).
USIU-Africa and Kenya Film Commission (KFC) have signed a five-year agreement to boost film studies.
The Memorandum of Understanding is aimed at making Kenya a first-class provider of screen entertainment for local, regional and international markets.
To this end the university commits to provide quality and relevant training.
In the agreement, the two institutions will work together to build capacity through organising film classes, workshops, seminars, film boot camps, short courses, projects and programmes.
The two institutions will also market the Kalasha International Film and TV Festivals to increase market penetration and visibility for Kenyan content at international film markets.
USIU-Africa Vice Chancellor Paul Zeleza said the partnership will position both institutions as resource centres for local broadcasters, media, film and communication researchers and scholars as USIU-Africa will be able to offer mentorship programmes for students interested in film.
“We will conduct film industry research and collect data, which will enable us to develop short courses tailor-made for industry practitioners for certification,” said Prof Zeleza.
Kenya Film Commission Chief Executive Officer Timothy Owase said the State corporation will continue to source and negotiate for tax relief incentives on film and animation equipment to boost the industry growth.
“We will offer guidance on standards of excellence and advocate for the use of best practice in film production while working closely with relevant government agencies to create robust and streamlined mid-level film education that will lead to more exportation of locally-made films,” sais Owase.
Today, many people, especially Africans find it hard to identify with their cultural values and way of life as a result of embrace to modernisation and civilisation.
One man in Elgeyo Marakwet has taken it upon himself to preserve the fading culture of the Keiyo community, which is part of the Kalenjin subtribes.
Joseph Kwambai, 70, said modernisation has changed the African society from a traditional socio-economic setup to where locals have now adapted to new norms and way of life.
“Driven by the need to ensure future generations get a feeling of how Africans behaved and conducted themselves in the past, I have been collecting Keiyo relics and preserving them in a museum in Chekobei village in Keiyo south sub county for the past 20 years,” said Mr Kwambai.
Situated next to Chekobei Primary, along the Iten-Kabarnet road, the cultural centre is decked with a collection of books showing how the cultural heritages of African communities used to live and socialize in the past.
It even holds currencies in different denominations and states.
“I have several Biographies including the one of the late second President Daniel Arap Moi “the making of an African Statesman” by Andrew Morton and many others. 
Books written by colonialists are also available,” he said.
Apart from the books at the Museum, other items showcased include those used in war, ceremonies, rituals, kitchen-ware and farming among others.
Even the Bible and Quran are in the center.
There is also a Keiyo homestead erected to illustrate how a family shared the rooms. 
The old man was forced to travel wide and far in search of the traditional item.
“I am still collecting the items and part of history that I come across about different cultures more so the Keiyo community. Other communities should take up the initiative and ensure they preserve their cultures as a way of ensuring the coming generations will not be enslaved by the coming up of modernisation,” he opined.
The centre was then commissioned in 2006 but officially opened four years later to the public.
George Otieno’s passion for art started way back in 1988, on his first day in a primary school in Busia County, while staying with his maternal grandmother.
“The first assignment in Standard One for us was to draw a vehicle. I drew a pickup, which the teacher liked and gave me a red tick. Since then, I knew any good thing should have a red tick. That is when I knew drawing is good,” said Otieno.
In Class Five, he started using coloured pencil. 
Later, he moved to Nairobi and did some causal jobs in the city’s Industrial Area as a causal labourer, though he never stopped painting, albeit for fun.
“In the year 2007 I received Sh3,000 for a paint I did for then Health Minister Charity Ngilu and Sh7,000 from a former Kenya Dairy Board managing director. I then knew art pays,” said Otieno at his art studio in Milimani Court in Obama Estate, Nairobi.
He quit the casual job, used the Sh30,000 he received after painting a picture of former President Daniel Moi to buy drawing equipment.
He then set up a small workshop and ventured into commercial art.
In 2002 when President Uhuru Kenyatta was running for presidency, Otieno saw a picture of former President Moi published in The Standard wearing a red kitenge shirt decorated with Kenya African National Union (Kanu) colours and a cockerel. 
“I drew Mzee Moi and besides him put President Kenyatta. I then drew Kanu flag and wrote, “Kanu Yajenga Nchi”.
"A neighbour saw and liked it. He introduced me to a friend called Mutua, who worked with then Presidential Escort Unit. Mutua asked him to bring the painting so that he could see it,” said Otieno.
They met and Mutua introduced him to a University of Nairobi lecturer Prof Geoffrey ole Maloiy, a close friend of the late Mzee Moi, who took the painting to the President.
“Within two days, Mutua called me and said Moi liked it and had paid Sh30,000. That was the first good amount I received from art and it was like a jackpot. The joy that President Moi liked my work and paid for it inspired me a lot,” said Otieno, born in Seme, Kisumu County.
He has also sold two paintings of former US President Barrack Obama to an art collector, which fetched him Sh500,000. 
However, there is a Cabinet Secretary he claims owes him Sh30,000. 
He didn’t give details.
“There are two pictures I painted of former President Mwai Kibaki on a wheelchair and another in his office. They cost Sh500,000 but I was never paid,” said Otieno.
It was all glamour at the 2018 Kalasha awards ceremony held on Saturday evening at the Safari Park Hotel in Nairobi.
The red carpet event hosted by the Kenya Film Commission, in its eighth edition, featured the who’s who in the film industry, dignitaries and top Government officials.
Journalists Amina Rabar and Jeff Koinange made sure the audience was entertained with their tickling punchlines as they emceed the event.
Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru, principal secretaries Fatuma Hirsi and Jerome Ochieng, Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris and officials from the French embassy attended the function. Others included actors Charles Bukeko (Papa Shirandula), Mary Khavere (Mama Kayai), Lucy Wangui and Pascal Tokodi.
Senator Gideon lauded the event for celebrating and rewarding local talent and sustaining the future of the local music industry.
The Kanu chairman also applauded the Kenya Film Commission and Kalasha for a job well done. 
“We want the local film industry to set the trend and make upcoming and aspiring musicians feel like they want to be part of it in years to come. With this kind of event, Kenya could easily provide 90 per cent local content and not be boring,” said Gideon.
CS Mucheru commended the winners and requested the local Kenya Film Commission to inject new blood and life into the local film industry.
He said President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration was committed to having the local film industry transform the country.
“We want to come out with a blockbuster movie to be sold in Africa, China and the rest of the world. We also want to set up a task force to ensure that we transform the local film industry by building theatres in all the 47 counties with the support of my ministry, the Nairobi senator, the Government and the media to ensure we come out with the best in terms of movies,” said Mr Mucheru.
There was also a moment of silence to pay tribute to fallen heroes among them former Vitimbi and Vioja Mahakamani actor Charles Kimani alias Masaku, former Churchill comedian Emmanuel Makori popularly known as Ayeiya and Mombasa-based actress Maureen Wanza,popularly known as Sasha.
Organisers asked Kenyans to help pay the hospital bill for actor Kone Nouhoum of Selina, who was involved in an accident a few weeks ago and is in the ICU.
Kalasha International Awards is an annual event presented by the Kenya Film Commission whose mandate is to promote a vibrant local film industry.
The initiative seeks to recognise talent in the different facets of film and TV industry by awarding those in the five original branches of filmmaking: directors, actors, writers, producers and technicians.
It was a big moment for those who bagged awards. Kenya’s film industry is growing slowly but surely, with people like Wanuri Kahiu getting recognised internationally for their work in film.
The event was sponsored by KTN, Communications Authority of Kenya, Anga Imax, Canon Kenya, French embassy, Kenya Broadcasting Corporation, Buzz, Kwese Inflix, Media Council of Kenya, Movie Mtaani, Pixel, Scoop Network, Safari Park Hotel, Telcom Kenya, USIU, and Brand Kenya.  
Writer King’ori Gachoka was 22 years old when he first met celebrated author Francis Imbuga.
Things were so bad for the budding writer such that he could not afford a typewriter.
His script for a play had just been rejected by a local television station because it was handwritten, and he thought this could end his dream.
At the time, Gachoka was a student at Kenyatta University where the late Prof Imbuga, then 47 years old, was his dean, in the Arts Department.
His frustrations led him to share the rejected piece with Imbuga with the aim of borrowing his typewriter.
The professor was impressed with his work and allowed him to use his valuable Olympia Traveller DeLuxe portable typewriter.
Yesterday, Gachoka, who will soon turn 47, could not hold back his tears as he parted with the typewriter, the same one that kick-started his career as well as Imbuga’s.
The typewriter will now be part of the exhibition of Imbuga’s literary works.
“I took time to prepare myself because I knew it was not going to be an easy thing. So in July and August this year, I carried the typewriter to every meeting I attended and everywhere I went,” said Gachoka.
Gachoka, who spoke during the launch of the exhibition yesterday, reminisced the days when he was struggling. He also narrated how the professor surprised him when he returned the typewriter.
“It is yours now. I gave it to you,” said Imbuga to Gachoka’s amazement.
The typing machine, though slow, is still in good working condition.
Gachoka’s first literary work, a novel titled Divided Life, which thrust him into the  literature field, was produced using the type writer.
The novel saw him brush shoulders with big names in the industry such as Prof Egara Kabaji, who was present during the launch of the exhibition.
Standard Group Chief Executive Officer Orlando Lyomu, who was the chief guest, said the exhibition would give Kenyans an opportunity to interact with Imbuga’s thoughts.
He said the media requires more content and called on those with ideas on drama to come up.
“Do not shy away from partnering with us, this will help us continue mentoring talents in honour of the late Imbuga,” said Lyomu.
To promote national heritage, Lyomu said, Standard Group will continue partnering with the Kenya National Archives, as it celebrates its heritage as the oldest media group in the region.
Other guests present were Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology Vice Chancellor Fred Otieno and his Kenyatta University counterpart Paul Wainaina.
During the exhibition, Kenya National Archives will not charge the public. The exhibition will run until April 2019.
Dubbed “An Exhibition of Prof Francis Imbuga’s Literary Works”, the gallery is a package of his entire life, containing photos from his days as an actor.
Imbuga’s works have become key in the study of literature schools in Kenya, with the most famous one being Betrayal in the City.
 It also has photos of his young family and those taken just before he died.
His other books include Aminata, Man of Kafira, The Burning of Rags and The Successor.
Imbuga’s works have consistently brought out issues that affect the society such as the clashes of modernity and tradition in the social organisation of African communities.
Gachoka, who spoke during the launch of the exhibition yesterday, reminisced the days when he was struggling.
 He also narrated how the professor surprised him when he returned the typewriter.
Young family
Dubbed “An Exhibition of Prof Francis Imbuga’s Literary Works”, the gallery is a package of his entire life, containing photos from his days as an actor. It also has photos of his young family and those taken just before he died.
If we want to meet the dead looking alive we turn to art, said writer Hilary Mantel. An exhibition on the life and times of the late satirical playwright Francis Imbuga hopes to do just that.
The exhibition, which opens tomorrow at the Kenya National Archives will showcase Imbuga’s life in pictures, writings and mementos spanning from his grandparents who turned him into storyteller to fun times quaffing his favorite Tusker beer with friends at the Kenya National Theatre.
Visitors will also be able to see original hand written manuscripts of his plays penned in an immaculate handwriting that his widow Prof Mabel Imbuga is still in awe of.
“He had a very neat handwriting. He hardly made any mistakes and it’s something that really impresses me up to this day especially when I look at his first book,” she says.
The exhibition also displays the typewriter which he banged his famous plays on, a record player that will play his favorite vinyl records to viewers, awards scooped along the way and personal effects including his famous cowboy hat and kitenge shirt.
Exhibition reveals Francis Imbuga’s creativity
n air of fanfare and celebration reigned at Kenyatta International Convection Centre on Saturday evening when two renowned American music groups performed.
Enthusiastic audience sang along to timeless classics by American rhythm and blues maestros Blackstreet and SWV (Sisters With Voices).
The two groups gave a spectacular performance that evoked a sense of nostalgia for the 1990's music.
Performing for the very first time in Kenya the SWV trio of Coco, Lelee and Tamar set the mood with their popular song Weak in beautifully choreographed dance moves reminiscing the Kenyan disco scene of the 1990s.
Clad in baseball tops in green, blue and silver with golden sprinkles, the girlsdefied age with their dance moves.
One could easily mistake them for the youthful musicians such as Beyonce or Lady Gaga
The trio sat perched on high stools as they rendered yet another classic hit, Rain which could not have come at a better time when Nairobi experienced rain after a long dry spell.
Coco, the eldest of the three who has a grandchild poked fun at a couple who had earlier on proposed live on stage.
"I heard someone proposed here this evening. You are getting into a whole lot of trouble," she said.
The girls' serenading vocals were a reminder that all is not lost for soul music lovers.
The Valentines themed night got even better when Blackstreet came on stage to dish out red roses to ladies who attended the show.
That gesture fired up the show by quartet of Chauncey Black, Dave Hollister, Mark Middleton and Terrel Philips.
The four rocked the house with pure display of energy with amazingly original renditions of their hits including Don't Leave Me as the crowd sang and danced along.
Then they brought in Money Can't Buy Me Love that had an air of paradox given that the many couples dancing next to the stage had to part with a whooping Sh25,000 per ticket for the night.
Out of this Sh1,000 went to a famine relief fund.
Their depth, passion, and substance that made this group top the charts throughout the nineties were best manifested in their rendition of No Diggity.
But credit went to the youthful section of the crowd who seemed at ease with the songs and effortlessly sang along just like the older generation of soul music lovers.
It showed just how versatile and dynamic the so-called generation-X is that they will go for any good music, age notwithstanding.
By bringing the two American greats on the same night, KICC made the night worth every dime paid, including a five-course dinner by Sarova Hotels.
But the show started a slightly late, with SWV hitting the stage around 11.30pm. The show was supposed to have started an hour and half earlier and with performances by Kenyan curtain-raisers.
Some members of SWV also seemed to be affected by the huge amounts of  smokescreens on stage.
According to records, SWV that was formed in early 1990's by close friends of Coco, Lelee and Tamara and had sold 25 million copies of music by 2015.
"I met some fine men by the name of Sauti Sol and I wanna say I love them so much," announced Coco at the beginning of the show hinting at a possible future collaboration with Kenya's most sensational music group.
Blackstreet's Black said they were happy to perform in Kenya and that the show had rekindled their resolve to continue creating new music.
On her hospital bed at the Kenyatta National Hospital in January 2015, gospel artiste Peace Mulu nearly lost hope in life after breaking her legs in an accident. Visits by her fans kept her desire to live.
Hit songs such as ‘Ombea Adui Yako’ catapulted her to national fame but despite the many years spent in the music industry, she had nothing much to show for it.  She was still not making enough money and her hospital bill had piled to Sh870,000.
Among her visitors at her hospital bed was a man who introduced himself as Bob from Liberty Afrika, who ‘offered’ to pay the bill.
“I declined but in March, he came to my house accompanied by a lady called Olive and said they had been sent by their boss to promote four of my songs in exchange for money,” she recalls.
“I had a bill of almost a million shillings in hospital and here was someone who had a cheque of Sh450,000 and was telling me he could pay me Sh150,000 per song only if I sign a piece of paper. I agreed without thinking twice,” she says.
Unknown to her, she had just signed off the rights and ownership of the songs to Liberty Afrika. 
The company would, without informing her, upload them to Safaricom’s Skiza Tunes platform in what is shaping up to be one of the biggest disputes in the music industry.
Started 10 years before Ms Mulu’s accident in 2005, Skiza Tunes is a Caller Ring Back Tone (CRBT) owned by Safaricom that allows users to select a song that would entertain them as they wait for their call to be picked.
Users dial *811# to download the songs and it costs just 75 cents per tune per day which is renewed automatically at midnight.
On the face of it, this looks like little money for subscribers. 
But with more than 10,000 songs for users to download and at least 5,000 artistes signed to the platform, this translates to millions of shillings.
In May last year, the company announced it had released Sh152 million to Collective Management Organisations (CMOs) and Premium Rate Service Providers (PRSPs) for payment to artistes whose music had been downloaded on the platforms since July 2015. 
Safaricom usually pays on a monthly basis but the money had been accumulating for 10 months due to a court order.
To cushion itself from having to deal with each artiste whose content is made available for download, Safaricom outsourced content acquisition by signing Content Provision Agreements’ with PRSPs.
The PRSPs receive content from producers, code it and upload on the platform and in return, Safaricom pays the PRSPs whose role is to distribute the proceeds among content producers.
hisT decision made when Skiza Tunes presented a new revenue stream for artists in the early days of the local pop music industry ran on auto pilot for a while. 
“I gave out my rights without knowing how much my music was worth. After all I was getting Sh50,000 every three months but now I believe I was defrauded,” says Lydia Joy Kairimu, the composer of the song ‘Mungu Najua Haujanisahau’.
Very few content owners were interested in knowing how much money was being made from their material as there was no data being provided about downloads.
Desperate to make money when music was still not paying very well, many artistes, including Elizabeth Nyambere, simply gave rights to their songs away in exchange for cash.
 In 2011 when she was still a struggling artiste, she heard that she could make money from her songs through ring back tunes and the offer she was given by Liberty Afrika sounded like music to her ears.
“I was desperate. They told me they could promote my songs for one year and gave me Sh400,000,” she recalls. 
A scrutiny of the contract by, however, shows she gave up rights for her songs for five years.
“The term of this agreement continues for a period of five years upon whose lapse it will be deemed to have been automatically renewed unless wither party issues a twelve months prior notice of intention not to renew the agreement upon the lapse of five years,” says the contract.
Joan Wairimu claims she gave out the rights of her songs without knowing their true worth and now wants them back.
“Even if you are a mad man do you want to say you can sell your song for just a million shillings when it is making millions in a month,” she asks. It is disputes like the one between Ms Nyambere and Liberty Afrika that would in time prove costly to Safaricom by exposing the company to legal disputes.
Safaricom’s maintains it is an infrastructure provider that enables rights owners and their licensees to avail their music to end users and would like the issue resolved.
“We would like to see all the parties involved in this dispute- the artistes, CMOs and CSPs- to seek clarity on the matter and settle on a payment structure amicable to all,” the mobile operator’s Chief Executive Bob Collymore told The Standard on Sunday.
He maintained the company is committed to work with all stakeholders so that everyone is satisfied.
“Our hope is that the progressive gains made so far for artists will lead to desired reforms and harmonisation of the industry for the benefit of all stakeholders,” he said.
But after learning from its mistakes due to the case, Safaricom in 2014 began meeting stakeholders in order to find a middle ground.
In August 2015, a new system was devised where three CMOs; Music Copyright Society of Kenya (MCSK), Kenya Association of Music Producers (KAMP) and Performers Rights Organisation of Kenya (PRISK) would collect royalties on behalf of artistes instead of PRSKs, which had been accused of exploiting artists.
The idea was to ensure everyone who is involved in the production of content, including sound engineers, producers and composers, got a share of the cake.
The CMOs who were also legally mandated were to ensure that everyone who claims rights to a song was paid and also insulate Safaricom.
Soon after, PRSPs Liberty Afrika and Expedia Management rushed to the Constitutional Court arguing that the authorisation of CMOs to collect money on behalf of artists was unconstitutional.
Justice Mumbi Ngugi in a ruling delivered on May 4 ruled that, “There was nothing in the law that stops the CMOs from collecting and paying all artists including non-members.”
She also ordered MCSK to make available to all artists logs showing how much their music had earned.
However, even before the ink had dried on her ruling, two artists Mercy Munee and Lydia Nyiva filed a case at the Malindi High Court saying they were not members of any CMO and were not intending to join one.
In November 11, Justice Said Chitembwe nullified Section 30A of the Copyright Act which authorises CMOs to collect payments on behalf of owners of copyrights in the nature of performing and producing rights, contradicting Justice Ngugi’s orders and forcing Safaricom back to paying artists through PRSP’s.
Nevertheless, data obtained by The Standard on Sunday on how the distribution of the money made from the Skiza Tunes platform is done in shocking.
Artists, who are the composers and rightfully the owners of the content receive the least.
For instance in three months between March to May of last year, Liberty Afrika, a PRSP which Ms Kamuri is signed to, received Sh1,724,355.39 from Safaricom which it was to share with her after deducting its own fees. 
Then from July 2015 to February 2016, Sh4,561,756.06 was paid out to Liberty Africa while only Sh13,473 went directly to her bank account. She is angry. “There is completely no transparency. We are living in shanties in Kangemi while people are eating on our money pretending they are assisting us sell our music,” says Ms Kamuri.
The data indicates that what went to Ms Kamuri’s bank account after all the deductions was just Sh28,831.48.
Such exasperation would boil over on April 16 last year when MCSK led artistes in a peaceful demonstration demanding they get paid all the monies owed to them.
Meanwhile after the order by the court which prompted MCSK to release logs showing how much money artists were making from downloads of their content, 14 musicians filed a case against the society, saying it had has refused to release their dues.
Through lawyer Gikunda Miriti, the musicians claim Safaricom had paid them their monies but MCSK was withholding holding it. 
Expedia Management Limited has declined to respond to our questions on the matter but Charles Mwalimu, a lawyer, says the artists failed to exercise due diligence when they entered into the contracts.
Also enjoined in the case was Expedia, which court papers said had changed its name from Liberty Africa limited.
“There is a general lack of disseminating information to artists when they sign any deal and because most of them are broke, when they get their first offer they rush into signing,” he says.
 “Most contracts are designed by lawyers and it would be prudent if you discuss any deal you get with a lawyer before putting pen to paper,” he says.
And although The Standard on Sunday is not at liberty to comment on the matter since it is still in court, we have established that Expedia has been dangling money to the artists by asking them to withdraw from any disputes they have with the company. 
“I wish to state that I have no dispute with both Liberty Afrika and Expedia Management and would like my name to be removed from the case,” says one of the affidavits which we have seen.
One of those approached is Mulu and Mary Wanjiru, who is popularly known as ‘Shiro Wa GP.’
“Four months ago, they called me telling me to meet them since they had realised I have a new song but I told them I was selling it to Cellulant (another PRSP),” says Shiro wa GP.
“I agreed to meet them but when we met, they brought along a document for me to sign claiming it was a contract. I didn’t sign it,” she says.
For Mulu, she was issued a cheque of Sh371,903 on January 11 on condition that she signs the affidavit.
But as the push and pull over the amount of money artists are making on what was supposed to be an alternative revenue stream continues, a majority have been left to be millionaires on paper but paupers in reality.
It is evident that many more may not even be knowing whether their music is on the platform or if they are making money at all.
Henry Waweru, who claims his songs have made Sh1.5 million in the last three months, wants the ring back tunes withdrawn altogether.
“I am just a millionaire on paper,” he says. “You know even if an artist becomes broke, he can’t go to work at a construction site or sell maize because he has a name.
 There was even a day I was asking God why he gave me this talent because people who sell maize on the road are making more money,” he says.
Jacob Boniface Maina (JB Maina), a Kikuyu secular singer received Sh15.5 million as compensation in an out of court settlement in 2014 from Safaricom after he won a case he had filed claiming his songs were being sold on the Skiza platform without his knowledge.
Back in the 90s when you were interested in a girl and wanted to put your best foot forward, one of the classical lyrics to drop was “I’m So Into You” or better still “You’re the One.”
Or if a girl wants to dump you and you’re still into her, “Before I Let You Go” was spot on.
The lyrical geniuses behind these all-time favourite R&B songs are American trio — Sisters With Voices popularly known as SWV and boy band Blackstreet Boys.
To crown this month of love, the stars are in Kenya for a much-hyped post Valentine’s gig.
The group came last night, and will headline the event dubbed Valentines Throwback Concert at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre in Nairobi tonight.
The two world-renowned groups landed at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport at around 9.30pm on Thursday.
Clearly exhausted from the long flight, the team posed for a few photos with fans before they were whisked away and driven to their hotel.
The event has been organised by KICC as a Valentine’s treat for Kenyan fans. 
Entry fee at the gate is Sh5,000 while VIP tickets go for Sh15,000.
Even though millenials may not connect with these stars, back in the 90s, the likes of SWV and Blackstreet Boys were one of the all time favourite R&B stars.
Blackstreet Boys known for the “No Diggitty” hit was founded in 1991 by Teddy Riley (formerly of Guy – a American hip hop group) and Chauncey Hannibal also known as C. Black. After the disbandment of Guy in 1991, Riley came up with the idea to start a new group featuring himself.
Originally, the group was to be named Stonestreet, but it was combined with Chauncey’s nickname, Black.
When the group settled on the name Blackstreet, it featured Teddy Riley, Chauncey Hannibal, Levi Little and Joseph Stonestreet.
SWV on the other hand, a two-time Grammy Award–nominated vocal trio, was formed in 1990 by Cheryl “Coko” Gamble, Tamara “Taj” Johnson and Leanne “Lelee” Lyons as a gospel group.
Like all bands, it underwent other changes along the way.
With time, SWV grew to become one of the world’s most successful R&B groups of the 1990s.
The trio released their debut studio album titled ‘It’s About Time’ on October 27, 1992. 
Some of their favourite hits include ‘Weak’, ‘Right Here/Human Nature,’ ‘I’m So into You’ and ‘You’re the One.’ 
The group disbanded in 1998 to pursue solo projects but reunited in 2005. As of 2015, the trio had sold more than 25 million records, making them one of the world’s best-selling girl groups of all time.
SWV’s first single, ‘Right Here,’ was released in mid-1992, hitting number 13 on the R&B charts. 
It was certified multi-platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America.
South African artist Percy Maimela stumbled upon his talent by chance, when some salt crystals spilled on the floor of the shop where he worked and as he tried to collect them he realized they formed shapes that he now turns into portraits.
His latest inspiration is former U.S. President Barack Obama.
"You can just take small stones and make something that no one ever thought of," he told Reuters in the capital Pretoria.
"Even salt companies, they wouldn't say salt is just for food anymore," he said, crouching over his portrait of Obama on his dining room floor.
The 31-year-old applies glue to cloth and then sprinkles table salt to sketch the portrait. Some of the famous faces he has drawn include global icon Nelson Mandela. Often, he'll chance his luck with passers by.
"I'll just carry just a black cloth and a bag of salt, then you can just come and give me 300 rand ($23) and then I'll just sketch your face, quick," he said. "And for you it's a memory and you'll never get that anywhere else."
Maimela - who quit his job at a retail store last year to pursue his craft - said he has loved art since he was a child but could never afford professional training.
Getting started on a commissioned piece of work requires a tiny investment of less than 50 US cents for salt and a little extra for glue. He said he can sell a piece for about $30.
Maimela, who also works in pencil, has not been able to get any of his work shown in galleries and relies on the Internet to generate interest in his work.
"Being an artist in total is not easy, because not everyone understand art and then not everyone is willing to buy art. But everyone is willing to buy something that's provoking to their feelings," Maimela said.
Renowned South African novelist and apartheid critic Peter Abrahams is dead.  
Abrahams, whose novel, Mine Boy, was a set book in Kenya in the late 90s, was found lying in a pool of blood in his house in Jamaica Thursday.
Jamaican police sources said initial investigations indicated the journalist and radio commentator may have fallen off his wheelchair but the large pool of blood found at the scene of his death triggered a foul-play theory.
He was 97.
Last year, his house was broken into four times, necessitating installation of an alarm, police said.
Abrahams was among the first African writers to gain international acclaim, alongside fellow anti-apartheid writers such as Alex La Guma.
In Mine Boy, he writes about the harsh treatment of mine workers and race relations in Apartheid South Africa, matter that simmers in the country's politics to date.
Abrahams's personal encounter with racism is best captured by the fact that his mixed-race wife, with whom he had three children, regretted marrying a black man.
Born Peter Henry Abrahams Deras on March 3, 1919 in Johannesburg to an Ethiopian father and a coloured mother, Abrahams left South Africa in 1939 after he was charged with treason.
 He settled in Britain, where he worked as a journalist, writing for The Daily Worker, The Observer in England, and the The New York Herald Tribune in the US.
In London he met Pan-Africanists such as Jomo Kenyatta and Kwame Nkurumah. From London he was exiled in Jamaica, where he has lived till his death.
"I visited Peter Abrahams in his house in Jamaica. He had just reclaimed rights for his Mine Boy and A Wreath for Udomo from the African Writers Series and I took them up," East African Educational Publishers Chairman, Dr Henry Chakava told The Standard.
His other works include Dark Testament, Song of the City, The Path of Thunder, Wild Conquest, Return to Goli, Tell Freedom, A Night of Their Own, The Island is Now and The View From Koyaba.
Djibouti port poses a great challenge to the success of newly commissioned port because of its close proximity to Ethiopia.
Yesterday, East African Community and Regional Development Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohammed said a team of experts has been assembled to market Lamu in Ethiopia.
He said the State was also keen to have a different body other than Kenya Ports Authority to run the port amid reports that global terminal operators were keen to run the facility.
“The team will aggressively market Lamu in Ethiopia. We are keen to get the Southern Ethiopian market. We know the threat posed by Djibouti,” said Adan.
Reports indicate that the Government was also open to allow major global powers to establish military bases in Lamu just like the case in Djibouti.
"It is about 900 kilometers from Djibouti Port to Addis Ababa compared to 1,279 kilometers from Lamu Port," said Adan, adding that the government had also prioritised the construction of the roads.
Currently, the road from Lamu to Garsen is complete, Garsen-Hole-Garissa road is about 83 per cent complete and Garissa to Modogashe is also complete.
 “Modogashe to Isiolo is yet to start but it will start soon but Isiolo to Moyale is complete,” said Adan, adding that Kenya and Ethiopia have already established a common border post at Moyale.
“We want to attract big ships (Panamax ships) to drop cargo in Lamu before small ships transport it to Mombasa, Dar, Salala and Somali ports. Very many shipping lines have shown interest to use Lamu,” he said.
This means that Kenya is focusing on the transshipment business putting it in direct competition with the ports of Djibouti and Durban in South Africa.
KPA has already offered generous promotional offers to the shipping lines and shippers keen to use Lamu Port.
In the new tariffs, stevedoring charges have been reduced by 40 per cent.  Stevedoring is the loading or offloading of cargo from the ship.
Shore handling and wharfage services will also attract a 40 per cent discount.
Meanwhile, goods dropped at Lamu by big ships before they are transported to other small ports will enjoy a 30 per cent free storage period.
Domestic cargo will enjoy free storage for 15 days. Between 16th and 18th, Sh3,250 ($30) will be charged for a 20ft container while a 40ft container will attract Sh6,495 ($60).
“We will offer even more generous tariffs to attract cargo,” said Adan, while addressing the press in Mombasa days after President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the first berth of the Lamu Port.
Kenya has declined an application by the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to increase flights from Dubai to Nairobi, and vice versa.
In a move seen to protect the national carrier Kenya Airways, Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia said the government had resolved to deny Emirates unrestricted flights from the two cities.
Currently, Emirates makes 14 trips per week from Dubai to Nairobi and vice versa. But combined; trips from all airlines hailing from the UAE, including Etihad and Qatar Airways, are 28 per week.
The CS who was appearing before a Senate committee explained that his decision was aimed at protecting national interests given that the current air services agreement between the two countries was “one-sided and favoured Emirates”.
He also highlighted the prioritisation of payment of a Sh75 billion Kenya Airways debt as another factor.
 “The request by Emirates for us to allow them more frequencies will not be allowed. As long as I am the CS I will not allow it. The aviation business between Dubai and Nairobi is one sided and favours Emirates,” stated Macharia when he appeared before the Senate Roads and Transport committee.
The Senator Kimani Wamatangi-led committee was probing the alleged breach of an air services deal signed in 2002 and trade imbalance between Kenya and UAE following a statement sought by Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (Makueni).
Macharia explained that the seating capacity of Emirates, Etihad and Qatar was 15,400 against Kenya Airways’ 5,510. Secondly, he said, the number of passengers had gone down since Covid-19 set in, translating to reduced income for Kenya.
“The three airlines benefit from subsidies but we do not. This means they are able to subsidise their seat fares which we cannot do to match them. They can almost fly for nothing because they are heavily subsidised.
National Bank of Kenya (NBK) has reported Sh184 million in profit after tax for the first quarter ending March 31, 2021.
This was a 19 per cent growth compared to a similar period last year, driven by increased income from loan interest and foreign exchange trading, and lower loan loss provisions.
NBK Managing Director Paul Russo said the quarter was marked by pockets of slow recovery from the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic following the gradual reopening of the economy after a period of subdued activity.
“Having received a boost in Tier 2 Capital from the KCB Group, we are now well-positioned to continue growing the business and supporting our customers to weather effects of the pandemic," he said in a statement.
"Further, the capital injection enhances our compliance with regulatory ratios.”
KCB Group injected $30 million (Sh3.2 billion) in additional debt capital to NBK in April to enhance the bank’s capital buffers.
During the quarter, net interest income grew by five per cent from the previous year to stand at Sh1.9 billion.
The bank said interest income grew by 11 per cent to Sh2.7 billion due to increased volumes of loans and advances as well as sustained recoveries.
There was also a 28 per cent growth in interest paid on increased customer deposits, from transactions on the revamped digital channels.
Total operating costs during the quarter remained relatively flat at Sh2.09 billion, compared to Sh2.11 billion over a similar period in 2020.
This was despite increased investments in enhanced cybersecurity measures and revamp of the core banking system.
“We remain optimistic about prospects for this year in our efforts to turnaround the bank and deliver value for our customers," Mr Russo said.
"As economic activity picks up, the bank’s enhanced capital position puts us in good stead to help our customers walk the path to recovery after the slowdown due to the pandemic."
On the balance sheet side, total assets grew by 14 per cent to Sh114 billion, majorly from net loans and advances, which were up 20 per cent to Sh58 billion.
This was also supported by increased customer deposits which grew by eight per cent to Sh99 billion due to increased flows among existing clients and new accounts in corporate and retail franchises of the bank.
Kenya is set to receive Sh80 billion (USD750 million) from World Bank and Sh43.8 billion (USD410 million) from International Monetary Fund (IMF) by end of June as it eyes debt repayment extension from its external lenders. 
The Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) on Thursday said Kenya is keen on debt repayment extension from its external lenders to help stabilise the economy from the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Speaking at a post-Monetary Policy Committee meeting CBK Governor Patrick Njoroge did not disclose the exact amount of money Kenya would save from such arrangement only saying that the savings from any such arrangement will depend on the duration of the extension.
“Yes, Kenya is keen on any debt repayment extension, such arrangement will free up resources to be channeled to other purposes in the direction of helping the economy recover,” he said.
The Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI) is helping poor countries concentrate their resources on fighting the pandemic and safeguarding the lives and livelihoods of millions of the most vulnerable people.
Since it took effect on May 1, 2020, the initiative has delivered about Sh544.7b ($5 billion) in relief to more than 40 eligible countries.
In January, a club of rich countries (Paris Club) agreed to Kenya’s request for debt relief which will see the country save will save Sh17.1 billion.
The informal group of official creditors agreed to offer Kenya debt relief following the country’s application under the Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI), which is run under the auspices of the G20, a group of 20 wealthy nations.
Noting that Kenya was eligible to benefit from the G20’s DSSI, the Paris Club agreed to freeze Kenya’s debt repayment from January to the end of June.
Some of the club’s members that participated in the DSSI include France, Germany, Canada, Denmark, South Korea, Spain, Italy, Belgium, Japan, and the United States.
Kenya will save the most amount of money from Italy, which it was supposed to repay Sh4.5 billion during the six months, followed by Japan at Sh4.4 billion.
The other member of the club that was supposed to get the third-highest payout from Kenya is France, which was to receive Sh3.9 billion from the country’s coffers. Germany was to get Sh1.82 billion and Belgium Sh1 billion.
In March this year, African governments rooted for the extension of the Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI) until at least the end of 2021.
The move will free up an additional Sh871.6 billion ($8 billion) for recovery in 2021 and providing much-needed liquidity to respond to the Covid-19 crisis.
World Bank President David Malpass in April said extending the debt payment freeze through year-end would save even more money that countries could use to combat the COVID-19 pandemic and support their economies, Malpass told reporters, but gave no specific estimate.
KCB has introduced a discounted financing facility to boost KCB MSME customers whose operations have been adversely affected by Covid-19.
Micro, small and medium enterprises experiencing disrupted cash flows will be able to access both secured and unsecured financing for acquisition of trading assets and working capital to support business activities and preserve jobs by strengthening their resilience in the long- run.
The facility has also been discounted to cushion the MSMEs from the negative effects of Covid-19.
We are working hard to impel economic recovery with a focus on business enterprises.  
"This facility will enable these MSMEs to restart and rebuild as the pandemic-related restrictions continue to be lifted and recovery persists,” Said Annastacia Kimtai, Director Retail, KCB Bank Kenya.
These business enterprises are the lifeblood of our economy; we are going the extra mile to ensure they are adequately financed to weather these testing times and contribute to economic recovery and growth.
The beneficiaries will receive financing solutions ranging between Sh100,000 to Sh5 million and payable within 36 months.
The business must be a KCB bank account holder and must have been in existence for at least six months.
MSMEs who take up the facility will also receive non-financial services in terms of advisory provisions and training sessions on how to navigate through the prevailing market disruptions.
We recognize the potential MSMEs have on the economic growth in Kenya and that is why the Bank takes a keen interest to support the sector.
"We have been working with the county governments to provide facilities to enterprises and cooperative societies whose businesses have been affected by the slowdown in business operations.” Annastacia noted. 
“So far we have partnered with Laikipia and Kiambu County governments.” She said.
In October 2020, KCB also received approval for US$150 million, from the International Finance Corporation (IFC) as a lead syndicator, to support the growth of the Bank’s sustainable climate finance portfolio and scale-up lending to micro, small and medium enterprises including women-owned businesses.
The credit line has been contributing to the economic growth of the Kenyan economy by helping develop green lending and creating employment, especially for women-owned businesses.
KCB also has a wide range of SME loan products which include long term and short-term SME loans, temporary and permanent overdraft facilities, learning institutions loans, and dealer & Mpesa loans. 
KCB also extends Asset-based finance facilities and Insurance Premium Financing.
Interested parties should walk into any KCB branch and will be assisted by any KCB Relationship manager throughout the application process. 
or the first time in almost two decades, World Rally Championship (WRC) is coming back to Kenya in June bringing fortunes to the country, especially the hospitality sector. 
Kenya will be the only country in Africa to host one of the 12-events circuit of WRC 2021 taking place across the globe between January and November, with Kenya hosting the sixth event. 
The event governed and organised by Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) will take place in Naivasha between June 24 and June 27. 
WRC Safari Rally Chief Executive Officer Phineas Kimathi met with Governor Lee Kinyanjui and deliberated on the ongoing preparations. 
“This sporting activity with over 5,000 guests will pump over Sh6 billion in our economy. This injection will trickle down to the lowest of businesses in the area around where the event will take place,” said Kimathi. 
Kimathi who also chairs the Kenya Motor Sports Federation (KMSF) said the preparations were on top gear lauding President Uhuru Kenyatta for engaging FIA to bring back the world event to Kenya. 
“Only two countries outside Europe, Kenya and Japan, are hosting the event. We are glad the President took the initiative of pushing to have the event come back to Kenya after nineteen years,” said Kimathi. 
Governor Kinyanjui described the event as a shot in the arm for the hospitality industry which has been on its knees since the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country last year. 
“This will be a big win for our hotels most of which are nearly fully booked for the days during which the event will take place,” said Kinyanjui. 
The governor added that the event will rekindle the fun Kenyans were treated with during the Easter holidays every year up to 2002 when the last event was held in the country. 
“We expect it to be fun and involving as we witness this global event again. Our young children only hear of the great memories we had and they now have an opportunity to experience it,” he said. 
He urged tours and travel companies to capitalise on the event and come up with packages that will encourage the visitors to tour various tourist attraction sites in the county. 
“Nakuru is one of the most scenic counties. The area selected has Eburru Mountains, conservancies, lakes and parks with excellent hospitality facilities. Stakeholders in the sector should not let go of this opportunity,” said Kinyanjui, adding that all precautions had been put in place to curb spread of Covid-19. 
Monaco hosted the first event in January followed by Finland in February, Croatia in April and Portugal in May. 
Italy will host the event early next month. 
The event will later proceed to Estonia, Belgium, Greece, Finland, Spain and end in Japan on November 14.
Flimsy shacks of tin and ply have given way to sleek, painted houses - small, clean and leak-free - in Bangkok’s biggest slum, creating model homes and a blueprint for city development.
That is if community leader Surawat Krabsomboon and other residents can defeat plans to bulldoze much of Klong Toey slum and make way for the sort of gentrification transforming the Thai capital.
“We were living in broken houses and were unable to afford to repair the houses,” Mr Krabsomboon told the Thomson Reuters Foundation from his home in the city’s oldest slum.
“But we did not want to live like that, we wanted better homes, better amenities,” said the 29-year-old Thai, making the case for thousands more micro homes to replace the dilapidation that has mushroomed without design over decades.
“These houses have allowed us to remain here, and relieved the burden of residents when they had to stay home during the lockdown and could not go out.”
Klong Toey’s slum, an area of about one square mile in the heart of the city, is home to nearly 100,000 people, mostly rural migrants from northern Thailand, many of whom came to the city decades ago for jobs at the nearby Bangkok port.
They stayed on even as those jobs dried up and the area around them boomed with plush malls and high-rise blocks.
Krabsomboon had tried many times to fix their housing - the shacks are like saunas in summer and leak rain in the monsoon.
Now, with help from a charitable foundation and a top Bangkok architect, dozens of residents have new homes where their tired shacks once leaned - with sturdy steel frames, insulated roofs and fire-resistant floors of fibre cement board.
The micro homes, funded by the Charoen Pokphand Foundation, have helped residents brave the pandemic, and could be a model for the larger planned redevelopment of the slum, said Surawat.
But the Port Authority of Thailand, which owns much of the land on which residents built their shacks illegally, wants to clear the slum to make way for office and commercial blocks, tourist spots and a modern transport and logistics hub.
About 12,000 households must relocate - either to a new high-rise complex nearby, to plots about 30 kilometres away, or take a cash compensation and move elsewhere, authorities say.
The plan is opposed by residents who say their lives and livelihoods will be affected, and that the small flats on offer will not suit large families, or people with shops or chickens that roam the narrow alleyways.
Most residents work in construction, as street vendors and as motorbike taxi riders ferrying people around the city of about eight million, and say they need to stay local to earn.
“Development is needed, better homes and living conditions are needed, but they must first listen to the community and their needs,” said Prateep Ungsongtham, founder of the Duang Prateep Foundation that runs a charitable school in Klong Toey.
“If the redevelopment happens without that, then this community will disappear and this will become just like any other expensive neighbourhood in Bangkok with no place for the poor people who serve the city,” she said.
Across Bangkok, informal settlements have been torn down and vendors removed from streets in a push to beautify the city and create parks and walkways for tourists and wealthier residents.
Prateep and other campaigners have opposed the city’s policy of resettlement, which they say separates the poor from their social networks and limits their ability to make a living.
In Klong Toey, where residents have resisted previous eviction attempts, many homes lack running water and sit cheek by jowl with open drains and trash heaps in alleys that are too narrow for garbage trucks.
While the neighbourhood was relatively untouched by the coronavirus pandemic last year, a recent surge across the country has seen hundreds get sick in Klong Toey.
The school of the built environment is composed of physical planners, architects, quantity surveyors, construction managers, engineers, interior designers and valuers.
All these professionals are trained to perform certain tasks at different levels and their roles are well-differentiated though expected to work together to provide a beautiful output.
For instance, a comprehensive development requiring a master plan should be such that a physical planner becomes the lead of a project team during preparation of the plan for purposes of organising and activating land uses on site.
This includes issuing the land use guidelines and regulations required in using the space efficiently and effectively together with the building standards to be adopted in the project process till completion.
The architect should then take the prepared master plan and, in consultation with the planner, develop appropriate building and landscape designs that befit the land use distribution as anticipated by the master plan.
At the stage where the master plan is finalised and approved for implementation, the titling or ownership procedures for the development is preconceived, which becomes another process led by planners, land surveyors and the lawyers.
The preparation of building designs goes hand in hand with the structural engineering and infrastructure designs prepared by the project engineers.
The quantity surveyor then comes in to value and cost the building designs under the bill of quantities.
When all is set for construction and implementation of the project, the architect, project engineers and land surveyors set out the ground for actual construction works.
During construction, the focal point day-by-day professionals would ideally be the construction managers who have synthesised the prepared building designs while the architects take up the supervisory role while periodically consulting with the physical planner to check on consistencies with the master plan.
Once construction is complete, the interior designers are commissioned to develop designs to expected quality.
Finally, valuers pick up the project for marketing and management on behalf of developers.
The summarised method above details out a systematic approach to a project in which all professionals do what they are trained to do.
This is the three-letter word that is in vogue among rental property owners.
It certainly decides how soon your houses are occupied. 
If a building is new, or has a newish look, then it is a key selling point.
“People want new houses. I do not know why,” says Urban Landlords and Tenants Association Secretary General Ephraim Murigo.
It seems that Nairobi residents no longer get wooed by utilities such as water round the clock, reliable electricity or type of house.
Even before the paint dries or the contractor collects his tools, it is not a surprise to find the house already occupied.
And almost every advert of a property for sale or rent will scream ‘new’, which means it is a factor that always works in the business.
“Brand new beautiful bedsitters now letting in Lower Kabete,” reads an ad by one of the realtors in the city, where the units are renting at Sh13,500 per month.
While Mr Murigo lists security, availability of water and modern finishing as some of the reasons that attract a tenant to a new apartment or flat, he admits that it is a phenomenon that is yet to be clearly understood.
He says it has become a trend that if a house is done today, in just two weeks, it is already fully booked.
Sometimes the houses are booked even before they are completed.
“Why? Because they believe that the person doing the finishing will be mindful of how properly the house will be finished,” he says. “In my view, that is why people like new flats.”
This is what also attracts Robert Otieno whenever he is hunting for a house. 
The Umoja resident says while old townhouses or flats may have the basic amenities such as water and power, new apartments have new designs.
“Some of these old houses do not have master bedroom ensuite, for example,” he says.
Samuel Tiriongo, director of research and policy at Kenya Bankers Association, which does quarterly reports on real estate, agrees.
“An apartment block that was built many years ago did not factor in things like open kitchen or space…nowadays we see apartments with detached servant quarters,” he says.
He says the additions make the houses attractive.
It is also the reason behind the government’s housing agenda that has seen some of the old houses being marked for demolition so that modern apartment blocks are put up.
Buxton Estate in Mombasa County and Old Ngara Estate in Nairobi are some that will be replaced in an extensive urban renewal project in the two counties.
Another trend, says Dr Tiriongo, is that there is an upward surge for new apartments in high-end areas such as Kileleshwa where high-rise buildings were not common.
He, however, says there is a limit on what makes the apartment attractive.
“If you beyond four storeys, you will see lesser demand,” he says. 
People want to live together but if it goes beyond a certain limit in terms of numbers (of occupants), you start to lose that interest.
The government has been cracking its head over the years to find a solution to the housing deficit, currently estimated at two million units by UN-Habitat.
It’s against this backdrop that housing sits at the core of the Big Four Agenda under which the State plans to deliver 500,000 units by next year through the affordable housing programme that covers major urban areas across the country.
This will entail the use of affordable and environment-friendly building materials and efficient construction technologies.
Naftali Nyabuto, a technology expert and chief executive of M-Zawadi, argues that Kenyans should not sit back waiting for the government to deliver the affordable housing dream but embrace what technology offers.
He says technology such as blockchain and Artificial Intelligence (AI) holds the future of owning homes as it breaks the cost barrier on construction.
“The solution to the housing problem should not be left to the government alone, modern technologies such as AI and blockchain offer practical alternatives to the crisis by aiding individuals easily build dream homes through installments,” he says.
Through a pool of software developers, Mr Nyabuto has come up with software known as Nyumba Mkononi, which links aspiring homeowners to the whole construction value chain.
The network includes companies dealing with cement, roofing and steel, tile and interior, blocks, ballast and sand providers, contractors, architects, labourers and installers.
Using advanced AI, Nyumba Mkononi can approximate the number of materials needed to build a particular house and give a purchase plan right from a mobile phone.
The concept uses blockchain technology and what Nyabuto calls „distributed databases” to create visibility, tracing and a secure system that brings together partners across the construction market.
“We have created an ecosystem of interdependence and we are at the centre of it using next-generation technologies,”  he says.
“We believe that starting to construct a house on your phone by purchasing materials in most affordable units, regular reminders on targets not only activates your creative subconscious which will start generating creative ideas to achieve your goal but also programmes your brain to more readily perceive and recognise the resources you will need to achieve your dreams,” says Nyabuto.
A task force on blockchain formed by the government in 2019 said in its report that the new technology has the potential to deliver affordable housing under the Big Four Agenda.
“Previous attempts to provide affordable housing failed when the rich, through corruption, denied poor people access to the allocations of new housing,” said the task force led by Bitange Ndemo.
“This will not happen in future since the State Department of Housing has committed to using blockchain for allocation and financial management of affordable housing.”
 “Blockchain in combination with AI will lower transaction costs through smart contracts,” it added.
According to a 2015 World Economic Forum survey of 800 executives and information and communications technology sector experts, 57.9 per cent of the respondents believe that 10 per cent of the global GDP information will be stored on blockchain technology by 2025.
“Until recently, blockchain was known more as the technology powering Bitcoin,” says Deloitte in a report on blockchain in commercial real estate.
“The industry players now realise that blockchain-based smart contracts can play a much larger role in commercial real estate (CRE), potentially transforming core CRE operations such as property transactions (purchase, sale, financing, leasing, and management).”
What will happen to Nairobi, the place of cool waters, when every blade of grass is replaced by concrete?
Will we have a New York-esque skyline to marvel at or have a jungle where sanitation is poorer, crime higher, cost of living at stratospheric highs and air pollution threatening life?
In 2009, the city had a population of 3.14 million. 
But by 2019 when Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) went out for the census, the population had soared to 4.4 million. 
More than 1.26 million people had come into the city through migration, mainly from the countryside, or by birth. But households told an even more interesting story.
In 2009 there were 985,016 households - defined by KNBS as a person or group of persons who reside in the same homestead or compound, but not necessarily in the same dwelling unit, have same cooking arrangements, and are answerable to one household head.
By 2019, there were 1.507 million households in the city.
That was an increase of more than half a million in just 10 years. More households increase the need for houses, both commercial and residential.
Planners will have a lot to do, with Nairobi now attracting more expatriates to add to the swelling numbers of locals coming into the capital. 
The World Population Review says Nairobi’s 2021 population is estimated at 4,922,192. 
“In 1950, the population of Nairobi was 137,456. Nairobi has grown tremendously since 2015, at a 3.96 per cent annual change,” it says.
“These population estimates and projections come from the latest revision of the UN World Urbanisation Prospects and represent the urban agglomeration of Nairobi, which typically includes Nairobi’s population in addition to adjacent suburban areas.”
It is expected that the population will be at 8.5 million by 2035, almost twice the current population.
These are results of extrapolations, it is anyone’s guess how many households there will be, and how many more buildings the city will have to hold.
“The current government’s aggressive infrastructure upgrade will position Nairobi as a preferred investment destination, which will lead to increased urban migration into the city,” says Rhino Mabati Chief Executive Andrew Muriungi.
“As the mega infrastructure upgrades continue, the County Government of Nairobi needs to come up with an elaborate sustainable land use plan to ensure developments factor in green zoning similar to what you would find in Singapore and Dubai.”
A World Bank publication, Africa’s Cities: Opening Doors to the World says the continent’s cities are not economically dense or efficient. They are crowded and unlivable. “Most urban residents are packed into low-rise, informal settlements without adequate infrastructure or access to basic services,” the report says.
“In Nairobi, the current patterns of informal land use in centrally located settlements impose an economic loss of over $1.8 billion (Sh194 billion),” it adds, noting that people are clustering in downtown locations.
Mizizi Homes Chief Executive George Mburu says the solution lies in proper planning.
“What I can ask of the government is to set aside some areas to plant trees, like we have Karura Forest, and developers and people contracting to leave room for green areas and tree planting to avoid degradation of the environment,” he says.
As much as there is need for more houses, he believes there should be proper planning to avoid mushrooming of shanties. The population increase points to this likelihood in the very near future, if not well managed.
Parts of Nairobi’s Eastlands are densely populated, and empty into the downtown CBD, which is equally overcrowded.
“These patterns reflect broader dysfunctionalities in land markets as well as limited investments in transport infrastructure, limiting the choices that people can make on where to live and how to access jobs,” say the World Bank report.
Mr Muriungi says the population growth might be slowed by the attractiveness of county towns following devolution. 
“We have seen a shift in city to county migration due to devolution that has created job opportunities within counties where land is affordable and easily available,” he says.
Manufacturing can move people from Nairobi, which is slowly ceding power as the centre of production.
“It’s also key to know markets are bottoming out. Economic habits are shifting to on-the-go economy,” says Muriungi.
Manufacturing, which creates a significant number of jobs and located mostly in Nairobi’s Industrial Area, has been disrupted by smaller players.
Smaller manufacturing plants in the counties mean that you can make your own animal feeds in your county and beat large-scale manufacturers because of transport and knowledge of the local market.
With this shift expected to continue we are likely to see the push for housing moving to the counties to support housing for factory workers, for industrial buildings and other supporting services such as IT and training and material supply,” Muriungi says.
In the future, as population rises, it is almost inevitable there will be a lot of constructions in the city even with migration into counties, but we might not get a New York.
First off, the World Bank report indicates that Kenya’s buildings are not as valuable as buildings in America.
“The value of urban building stocks is much lower in Africa than in Central America. The value per square kilometre in the four African cities studied ranges between $2.7 million (in Kigali) and $15.6 million (in Nairobi),” read the Africa Cities report. 
The government sometimes decides to acquire private land without necessarily asking the owners if they are willing to give it up. 
This is called compulsory acquisition.
If the government wants to build a roadway that passes through your parcel of land, they will seize the land and compensate you.
The same will happen if there is a mineral deposit in your land. You will not cash in on those gold reserves, it all belongs to the State. 
And if a public purpose facility is to come up, such as for defence, stadia, schools and hospitals, the government always gets its way.
It has been speculated that influential people buy parcels of land that the government wants to acquire, or property near such places, and await a windfall once the State comes calling.
In a series of government projects in 2020, which included the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) and the Lamu Port-South Sudan-Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) corridor project, the government parted with billions of shilling in compensating people who lost their land through compulsory acquisition.
For the SGR, it was estimated that the government would have paid more than Sh50 billion by the time disputes over compensation were resolved.
The compensation for the Mombasa-Nairobi section was estimated at Sh33 billion, equivalent to 10 per cent of the total project of Sh327 billion cost.
Other projects such as the Western Bypass and James Gichuru Junction-Rironi upgrade, which are nearing completion, have compensated landowners for hiving off their property.
The James Gichuru Junction-Rironi road passes through a densely populated section of Nairobi and Kiambu, and the compensation runs into millions of shillings.
“Some of the property owners were compensated for undeveloped open land but many other got extra for the property having residential houses, commercial developments, and even trees,” explained Stephen Njuguna, a land agent in Kikuyu.
“For most of the area along the highway, the rate of compensation averaged Sh60 million per acre. The value of developments was calculated, then 15 per cent of the total added as disturbance cost.”
The actual landowners, who relinquish their parcels to the government, arguably enjoy less benefits compared to their neighbours who stay put because the value of the property rises.
Granted, compensation is not done on speculative estimates but the market value of the land at the time of issuance of notice of interest by the government.
When the State takes over land and develops it, the value of nearby property increases.
Chapter 295 of the Land Acquisition Act says of the compulsory acquisition: “The acquisition of the land is necessary in the interests of defence, public safety, public order, public morality, public health, town and country planning or the development or utilisation of any property in such manner as to promote the public benefit.”
Any of these developments raises the profile of an area, and thus the attractiveness to investors and new settlers.
Not even community land is immune to compulsory acquisition.
The National Land Commission (NLC) decides on the compensation to be made to a landowner when a piece of land is deemed perfect for public use.
“The NLC decides which valuers to use, often using their internal valuers or from the valuation department in the Ministry of Lands,” says Dr Mwenda Makathimo, a land expert and licensed valuer.
In rare cases, where the capacity in the NLC is not sufficient, they engage private valuers.
The NLC is expected to make regulations for just, fair and prompt compensation.
“People cannot be compensated below the market value,” notes Dr Makathimo. “The rules are gazetted.”
While one Latin maxim on land ownership and administration states that anything that is permanently attached to the land belongs to the land and thus to the owner of the land, in most countries, the mineral resources are controlled by the holder of the radical title, the government.
In the United States, mineral resources belong to the landowner. 
Conservative Commonwealth states are among those in which natural resources, such as minerals, are exploited by the government for the public good.
“The reasoning is that the mineral occurs naturally and has the potential to benefit the public. It makes sense; if oil is to be drilled in someone’s piece of land, we have to realise that it could have cut across many people’s pieces of land enroute to that specific parcel, so why should the owner of the parcel benefit alone?” says Makathimo.
No parcel can survive without the collective, and so a naturally occurring resource benefits a whole community.
If the government acquires land for mining, the owner will most likely get less than the value of the mineral because the land will be billed at the market value.
Where land is acquired compulsorily, the Act says, full and fair compensation shall be paid promptly to all persons interested in the land.
“The commissioner shall appoint a date, not earlier than 30 days and not later than 12 months after the publication of the notice of intention to acquire, for the holding of an inquiry for the hearing of claims to compensation by persons interested in the land, and shall cause notice of the inquiry to be published in the Gazette at least fifteen days before the inquiry; and serve a copy of the notice on every person who appears to him to be interested or who claims to be interested in the land,” reads the Act.
The scramble for land around areas that are being compulsorily acquired by the government is probably one of the most ingenious moves by speculators.
They wish to benefit indirectly, land prices rising because neighbouring land has changed hands and the government is developing it. Or starting businesses as settlements increase.
Land prices shoot up around areas where roads are coming up, for example, as the opening up of hinterlands raises the profile of property with investors circling. Businesses sprout, and the economic viability of some previously moribund land increases.
The same happens in the case of a mine. As workers come into work, the price of land in the surrounding areas rises.
The secret to one selling land at prime prices may just lie in the government’s decision to take over nearby land through compulsory acquisition.
The government, and your neighbour, might be the difference between you owning land worth a few million, or hundreds of millions.
Makathimo says compensation is done with the legally approved land use.
 If the land is supposed to be agricultural and the owner has made it commercial, they shall not be compensated for the commercial use.
“Disturbance is accounted for, capped at about 15 per cent of the market value. Owners are also compensated for the loss of income and profit,” he says.
Valuation could be done for a full parcel of land even when not all of it is taken up - a severance effect is taken into account and what is lost compensated 
for. In such cases, the reduction of productivity of the remaining parcel of land is what gets compensated.
Also, the injurious effect is compensated, such as when a house is cut into half. One is compensated for the development they made on the land and the rights they would have exercised on it.
 “Compulsory acquisition is inherently disruptive. Even when compensation is generous and procedures are generally fair and efficient, the displacement of people from established homes, businesses and communities will still entail significant human costs,” says the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation.
“Where the process is designed or implemented poorly, the economic, social and political costs may be enormous. Attention to the procedures of compulsory acquisition is critical if a government’s exercise of compulsory acquisition is to be efficient, fair, and legitimate.”
After the award (compensation) has been made, the Commissioner of Land takes possession of the land by serving a notice to every person interested in the land that possession of the land and the title to the land will vest in the government.
The government, however, is keen not to pay an ‘exaggerated’ amount for land that has only been improved because the owners anticipated the acquisition. 
If the land was used for illegal activity, its value takes a hit.
“In assessing the market value, the effect of any express or implied condition of title or law which restricts the use to which the land concerned may be put shall be taken into account,” the Land Acquisition Act says.
“If the market value of land has been increased, or is currently increased the increase shall be disregarded: an increase because of an improvement made by the owner or his predecessor in the title within two years before the date of publication in the Gazette of the notice of intention to acquire the land unless it is proved that the improvement was made bona fide and not in contemplation of proceedings for the acquisition of the land.”
Valuers will calculate the sales of comparable parcels in a neighborhood and can estimate the value of a parcel of land.
NLC says if the award is not accepted, or if there is a dispute about who is entitled to compensation, the amount of compensation is paid into a special compensation account held by the commission.
The value of your land might be at the mercy of your neighbour, and the government.
If that neighbour’s land is taken by the government because he struck gold, then you might just have struck gold yourself, and might sell for a much higher price.
Local construction firms continue to feel sidelined as major infrastructure projects are taken by foreign companies.
The firms have decried the stringent measures they have to follow before being awarded work while the same laws are not binding to foreign contractors. 
Institute of Quantity Surveyors of Kenya (IQSK) President James Munene said during a media briefing in Nairobi on Tuesday that the impact of foreign contractors in the country should be assessed.
He said even though the foreign firms have delivered on their construction timelines, local companies have been left on the periphery due to the uneven ground.
“We are calling on the Government to strongly consider putting in place measures to ensure that in as much as we are allowing foreign players to practice in the local scene, we are doing so in a manner that benefits the local construction industry and local practitioners as well,” Mr Munene said.
According to the National Construction Authority (NCA) 2014 regulations, certain work is exclusively reserved for local contractors as opposed to open bidding, which attracts all interested bidders.
Foreign contractors, according to the law, are only eligible to register for a NCA-1 contract (a building contract above Sh500 million) whereas local contractors can register for all categories of contracts.
Foreign firms are also required to make applications to NCA before undertaking works classified under category 1.
Such applications are to be accompanied by an undertaking in writing that they would adhere to sub-contract 30 per cent of the project value to local persons or firms and transfer technical skills not available locally to construction firms adhering to NCA guidelines.
IQSK, however, says subcontracting has seen local firms being sidelined in major infrastructure projects that are ongoing.
It argues that the even though the regulations are clear, their implementations has been left at the discretion of foreign firms who often ignore them.
“What is required is sustainable projects to necessitate active involvement of local contractors,” Munene said.
“Such developments would solve most of the problems; for instance, there would be reduced capital outflows, and local firms would be forced to improve their capacity.”
The argument by surveyors comes three years after a report commissioned by the Competition Authority of Kenya (CAK) showed that local construction firms are disadvantaged compared to foreign companies.
According to the report, most local firms constantly felt left out on bigger projects with foreign firms failing to sub-contract them, hence minimising the potential growth of local companies.
“The challenge with these regulations is that they are not binding on the part of the foreign firms. The foreign firms may win tenders individually and it is up to them to then seek a local partnering firm afterward,” said the report.
CAK also highlighted that even though the law was enacted to boost the capacity of local firms, they have nothing to show for it years after its passage.
“The local firms may not get their fair share of the agreement. Most local firms are assigned just segments of the project and hence may not really benefit from the skills transfer initiative,” said the report.
According to the 2020 Economic Survey, the construction sector registered a growth of 6.4 per cent in 2019 compared to growth of 6.9 per cent in 2018.
The number of people employed in private construction works increased from 1.6 million in 2018 to 1.7 million in 2019, the survey indicated.
However, the country saw a decline in cement consumption from 59.4 million tonnes in 2018 to 59.3 million in 2019, while loans advanced to the sector saw a jump from Sh1.4 billion in 2018 to Sh1.5 billion in 2019.
 Similarly, labour cost recorded an increase of 4.5 per cent in 2019 compared to 5.3 per cent in 2018.
In 2018, the government spent Sh154.5 billion but it increased its expenditure on roads by 10 per cent, translating to Sh 169.9 billion in 2019.
Kenyan banks may be swimming out of the Covid-19 storm with most of them now recording a rise in net profits in the first quarter of 2021.
Equity Bank’s net profits rose by 64 per cent in the period between January and March at the back of increased income even as the listed lender controlled the growth of expenses.
The bank made a profit after tax of Sh8.7 billion in the period under review compared to Sh5.5 billion that it posted in the first quarter of 2020.
Equity outshone its closest rival KCB which made a profit after tax of Sh6.37, an increase of 1.7 per cent from Sh6.26 billion in the first quarter of 2020.
Equity Group Chief Executive Officer James Mwangi noted that the performance was largely due to the lender's prudence which saw them push a lot of their business to Treasury and non-funded income even as their provisioning costs went down.
As a result, Equity’s total income grew by 31 per cent to Sh25.5 billion compared to costs which increased by eight per cent.
“The sustainability of that profitability comes from the top line. The fact you could have topline growing at 31 per cent, 32 per cent, then shows sustainable profitability going forward,” said Mwangi in an interview with The Standard after the investor briefing.
He noted that the dynamism of the Kenyan and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) markets - Equity’s first and second-largest markets, means that revenues continue growing exponentially as they can be deployed quickly.
Equity boss said the costs will continue to shrink as the bank unlocks the synergies in DRC and reduction in units cost is driven by the very rapid growth that DRC is experiencing.
 Equity recently unveiled its newest subsidiary in DRC, BCDC Equity.
"The group adopted a prudent approach last year and decided to take the hit on using IFRS 9 computation of the lifetime risk of the book that was existing last year. And that why you don’t see any additional provisioning for the book that we adopted at the beginning of the year,” said Mwangi.
KCB Chief Executive Joshua Oigara said the growth in profitability was due to the cost-saving initiatives and increase in net interest income.
“The economic environment marginally improved in the quarter although uncertainties from the pandemic remain a big risk to the outlook,” said Oigara in a statement, adding that waiver of fees on mobile lending affected non-funded income which remained subdued.
KCB's group total income grew at a slower rate to Sh23 billion from Sh22.9 billion. Interest income increased to 21.9 billion from 20.2 billion in the period under review.
KCB’s total costs also remained flat from last year closing at Sh11.1 billion.
Compared to Equity whose ratio of non-performing loans to gross loans was at 11 per cent, KCB’s was at an elevated level of 14.8 per cent compared to 11.1 per cent last year.
NCBA Bank’s net profit also increased by 74 per cent to Sh2.8 billion compared to Sh1.6 in the first quarter of 2020, helped by massive growth in digital loans.
NCBA disbursed Sh134 billion during this period. 
“We are immensely proud of our strong financial results during the first quarter, NCBA Group has demonstrated the ability to tightly balance strong credit discipline with its commitment to support its customers during this period,” said NCBA Group Managing Director John Gachora.
The livid operators claim there is an increased number of quack players who have invaded the sector and are eating into their revenue without following regulations.
The couriers link the growing appetite in the business to the rapid uptake of e-commerce services in the country and movement restrictions due to the effects of Covid-19, which have seen some passenger vehicles converted into cargo buses.
Some of the operators who talked to Shipping and Logistics said unlicensed players have tilted the business environment by offering below-market courier service rates, impacting negatively on the bottom line of genuine operators.
“We are witnessing an improvement in secure logistics business fuelled primarily by the aggressive uptake of e-commerce in the country. This is attracting more people in the industry,” averred Lawrence Okello, G4S Chief Executive Officer, Kenya.
“Our competitive edge remains a wider network spanning the whole country. This has enabled well-established courier entities to offer the last mile connection, which is on a higher demand by e-commerce clients.”
According to Okello, couriers mostly transport books, spare parts for telecom companies, pharmaceuticals and warehouse storage facilities.
Glovo General Manager Priscilla Muhiu said the rapid uptake of e-commerce in Nairobi, Mombasa, Nakuru, Eldoret and Kisumu boosted couriers last year with the trend continuing in 2021.
“The most important e-commerce enablers are the ability to access financial services, digital payment channels and digital infrastructure. These enablers are starting to take hold across. Cash may remain the dominant payment instrument for now, but we are seeing signs that this will eventually change,” she said.
According to Omar Salim, a manager at Mash East Africa, the problem of unregulated operators and the effects of Covid-19 over the past year have proved a challenge to the courier industry.
However, he said traditional operators find a lifeline in their established networks both upcountry and across the region.
“The new development is hurting the industry, we are currently operating at half the capacity,” he said.
Halim Sadia, a senior clerk at the Coast Bus, said the expansive network built over a period of time and corporate clients have been a lifeline to the regulated courier providers.
After the restriction of movement, which grounded a number of vehicles, the passenger service vehicles (PSVs) that ferried passengers into and out of the city devised ways to remain afloat.
One of the creative ways was to turn their vehicles into cargo carriers.
But Communications Authority (CA) acting director-general Mercy Wanjau said such a venture was illegal. 
“Some PSVs and e-commerce market platforms have taken advantage of the coronavirus to offer courier services without being licensed,” she said.
She added that any person who will be caught engaging in the service illegally will be charged in accordance with Section 49 of the authorities Act.
The Act slaps an offender with a Sh300,000 fine or an imprisonment term not exceeding one year. CA warned that it will revoke courier licences of 21 service providers, locking out several bus companies.
The number of letters sent in 2019-20 financial year dropped to 32.2 million from 47.1 million recorded in the 2018-2019 financial year. 
During the fourth Quarter of 2019/20, the volume of international incoming letters dropped by 35.2 per cent to 1.7 million from 2.6 million posted in the previous quarter.
Banks are slowly getting on track after a tough year in 2020 due to the adverse effects of the Covid-19 Pandemic.
During 2020, most banks recorded a drop in profit as the effects of the virus forced many of them to devise ways of cushioning customers including temporary suspension of loan repayment and slashing of transaction fees.
Equity Group, NCBA and KCB Group on Wednesday exuded confidence of a better future going by the results for the first quarter of 2021.
According to NCBA Group Managing Director John Gachora, “the results reflect strong underlying performance across all areas of our business and a slowly improving economy”. 
NCBA reported a net profit of Sh2.84 billion in the first three months of this year, which is a 74 per cent increase compared to the same period last year.
“We are proud of our strong financial results during the first quarter, NCBA Group has demonstrated the ability to tightly balance strong credit discipline with its commitment to support its customers during this period,” said Gachora.
“We view 2021, as our transition year following the finalisation of the merger and consolidation of all entities, systems and processes of CBA Group and NIC Group across the region in 2020.”
NCBA’s net interest income recorded a 20 per cent increase year on year due to growth in interest income from treasury investments and a reduction in interest expense following the retirement of NCBA Group’s medium term note in the third quarter of 2020. 
The overall effect was that, operating income in the period closed at Sh11.8 Billion representing 8 per cent growth against prior year performance.
Equity Group saw its profit after tax increase to Sh8.7 billion, a 64 per cent jump.
“We have returned strong quarter one results in a challenging environment amidst the multi-faceted Covid-19 crisis of health, economic disruption, and humanitarian challenges, giving hope of resilience and recovery,” said James Mwangi, Equity Group Chief Executive Officer.
During the multi-crisis year, Equity focused on social impact investment in health investing Sh1.7 billion in social response to society, forgoing Sh1.5 billion in waived mobile transaction fees, waiving Sh1.2 billion in loan rescheduling fees and accommodating Sh171 billon (or 31 per cent) of the loan book for up to 3 years of principal and interest repayment breaks to enable businesses to survive.
“We kept the lights of the economies we operate in on, supported businesses to repurpose, retool and recover by supporting livelihoods of our customers during the crisis”, said Mwangi.
Equity’s interest income grew by 32 per cent while non-funded income grew by 30 per cent to contribute 42 per cent of total income.
KCB Group recorded a net profit of Sh6.37 billion, a 1.7 per cent increase from Sh6.26 billion same period last year. 
A young man from the US by the name Thornton Oxnand arrived at the Toyota corporate headquarters in Nagoya Japan some time in 1992.
Armed with an MBA and MA in Japan Studies, Oxnand was eager to put both to good use and was promptly assigned a month-long orientation in the Toyota factory assembly line.
Being a quick learner, he easily mastered the Toyota production system and emerged with basic knowledge of standardised work and lean manufacturing which prompted him to moved to another department as a supply analyst.
After a while Oxnand felt he was being underutilised and was keen to have his boss review and enrich his responsibilities.
 “I know I am capable of more,” he thought to himself as he approached his boss to request for more work.
A month or two passed and the young American employee made another request to his boss for more work, but to no avail.
Finally, on his third attempt, the boss explained: “We exposed you to the principles of Toyota Production System. We gave you a small starting assignment. You must determine the rest. You must tell me what needs to be done, not the other way round. You must dig your own job.”
The message from Oxnand’s boss was simple: he had been given the foundation and the platform to build on and now it was up to determine how much value he would add to the organisation by finding real problems that he could use his skills and knowledge and experience to solve.
Rather than wait to be told what to do, today more than ever, organisations need employees who will dig their own jobs, who will innovate at their own initiative rather than sit around and wait to be told what to do.
As the push for cleaner energy intensifies, more and more companies around the globe are distancing themselves from funding unclean energy sources, such as coal-fired power plants.
The move comes at a time when coal, responsible for immense atmospheric pollution, is increasingly becoming unpopular even among Western countries, some of which industrialised using the energy source.  
“We will no longer finance new coal-fired power plants except where there is an existing commitment anywhere in the world,” announced Standard Chartered Bank in September 2018.
“We have taken the decision after detailed consultation with a range of stakeholders. This announcement is part of our updated position statement on power generation. Here for good means saying no to coal.” 
But despite the growing opposition to the development of new coal-fired power plants, Kenya has been pushing to add the energy source to its electricity generation mix, with the Sh200 billion Lamu coal power plant being its flagship project towards this end.
There are also plans for coal mining in the Mui Basin in Kitui County, which has been dogged by numerous delays due to the politicisation of the project.
Besides Stanchart Bank, other companies that have withdrawn funding for coal projects, including the Lamu coal project include China’s ICBC Bank, one of the largest in the world, which was to lend about half of the Sh200 billion required to build the Lamu coal plant that would produce 1,050 megawatts (MW) of power on completion.
South Africa’s Standard Bank, an affiliate of ICBC, was also going to fund the project but announced in 2017 it was pulling out, saying it had started reducing its carbon footprint annually as much as possible. 
“We reduce our own carbon footprint as much as possible each year. We have funded far more renewable energy generation than coal-fired power. We will apply very stringent conditions to any future funding of non-renewable energy,” said the bank.
The African Development Bank (AfDB) had at some point also considered financing the plant, while America’s General Electric (GE) was to provide what it termed “clean coal technology,” which would bring down pollution.
Both entities, however, have since ditched plans to fund the project as well as other coal projects around the world going forward. 
Newly elected United States President Joe Biden following his inauguration early this year underscored the seriousness of the threat posed by the continued exploitation of unclean energy sources such as coal by signing a treaty that saw America rejoin the Paris Agreement.
He also reversed his predecessor Donald Trump’s decision to exit the binding international treaty on climate change. 
The US also intends to cut carbon emissions in half by 2030.
Such moves have meant entities involved in projects responsible for the massive production of greenhouse gases have to change tack. 
National Environmental Complaints Committee (NECC) secretary John Chumo said the institution is advocating for companies to embrace “the new world order” and move to green energy.
“If you want to finance energy, finance clean energy,” he said.
“Sustainable development is where you can balance between development and conservation. If it is negative to the environment, then that is not development,” added Mr Chumo.
Concerns over the damage that mining, transportation and manufacturing have on the environment have seen lenders pull out of projects.
Thomas Reuters Foundation recently reported that 263 charities have urged banks not to finance a $3.5 billion (Sh374 billion) oil pipeline that links Uganda to the Tanzanian coast.
They are concerned that the project could lead to the loss of community land and livelihoods, contribute to environmental destruction and cause a surge in carbon emissions.
France’s Total and China National Offshore Oil Corporation are due to start work on the 1,445km pipeline from western Uganda through neighbouring Tanzania to the Indian Ocean port of Tanga.
Over the past year or so, digital transformation accelerated at an unprecedented rate in societies around the world. Whether we were working, learning, or staying in touch with friends and family, being online became more critical than ever. 
Even as vast numbers of people were adapting to their new realities, it became increasingly apparent that equally large numbers of people were shut out from being able to do so. Given that the theme of this year’s Telecommunication & Information Society Day, which took place on 17 May, is "Accelerating Digital Transformation in challenging times," it’s worth examining how big that gap is and how it can be bridged.
In Sub-Saharan Africa, for example, approximately 800-million people are not connected to the mobile internet.
Of those, some 520-million can access the mobile internet but don’t, because of factors such as smartphone penetration and lack of skills while 270-million cannot access the mobile internet because they don’t have the requisite coverage. Across the region, 4G broadband coverage is at just 21 percent.
The figures are even more stark when it comes to fixed-line internet connectivity. 
According to figures from research firm Ovum, there are just 6.6-million fixed-line internet subscriptions in Sub-Saharan Africa.  
While numbers are projected to grow three-fold by 2023, that still represents a small fraction of the region’s population. Those figures make it clear that the region needs to address a major internet infrastructure shortfall.
The benefits of growing internet accessibility and access are obvious. 
In 2019, in Sub-Saharan Africa, more than 650 000 jobs were supported directly by the mobile ecosystem and more than 1.4-million informal jobs in 2019.
 It also contributed more than US$17-billion to public funding through the course of the year.
 The International Telecommunication Union (ITU) has also established that a 10% increase in mobile broadband penetration in Africa would generate an increase of 2.5% in GDP per capita.  That’s to say nothing of the benefits that better and more affordable mobile internet can have on education, healthcare, and government services. 
With easily accessible internet connectivity, people can search for jobs, gain new skills, and access government services without having to travel to a physical location and potentially stand in long queues.
As we have seen, the pandemic has caused economic and social devastation and changed the way we live, work, study and socialize, bringing about an era of social distancing.     
One of the most significant changes is the acceleration of digital transformation. 
African policymakers have realised that access to broadband is critical for mitigating the effects of the pandemic and boosting economic recovery in the post-Covid era.
With changes in people’s behaviours and mindsets, broadband will also continue to provide opportunities for African countries to leapfrog obstacles to sustainable and inclusive socioeconomic development. 
Of course, the responsibility to create access doesn’t lie with government alone. 
Corporates also have a role to play. 
At Huawei, we recognise this and have backed a number of initiatives that aim to help grow access in areas where it’s needed mos
t. In July last year, for example, we launched the DigiSchool project in partnership with a local operator and a non-profit organisation. 
As response to the call to ensure that all South African school children can read fluently for meaning, the programme aims to connect more than 100 urban and rural primary schools to broadband internet.
Additionally, we’ve rolled out DigiTrucks in several African countries, which enable everyone from students to entrepreneurs to learn how to use computers and connect with the digital world. 
Earlier this year, we also announced a partnership with Ghanaian operators to build more than 2000 base stations in remote areas of that country to connect the unconnected.
From a healthcare perspective, meanwhile, with the broadband connections, Lifebank, a pioneering Nigerian startup that delivers blood and other essential medical supplies to hospitals. 
By keeping the startup and its riders connected, we can ensure that hospitals get urgent supplies when they are needed.
These kinds of projects, however, only serve to illustrate how much need for accessible, affordable broadband there really is across Sub-Saharan Africa.
They represent a glimpse at the kind of access that everyone should have and which players across society should look to provide.
For more than a decade, the United Nations has recognised that the internet is a catalyst for sustainable development.  
 As the events of the past year or so have shown, however, far too many people are unable to enjoy those rights because they lack access and connectivity. 
We will all benefit from widening access and bridging this divide. 
There is no question that it should be a major priority for governments, corporates, and civil society players alike and that it should be an ongoing one.
Huawei is a leading global provider of information and communications technology (ICT) infrastructure and smart devices.
 With integrated solutions across four key domains – telecom networks, IT, smart devices, and cloud services – we are committed to bringing digital to every person, home and organization for a fully connected, intelligent world.
Huawei's end-to-end portfolio of products, solutions and services are both competitive and secure.
Through open collaboration with ecosystem partners, we create lasting value for our customers, working to empower people, enrich home life, and inspire innovation in organizations of all shapes and sizes.
At Huawei, innovation focuses on customer needs.
 We invest heavily in basic research, concentrating on technological breakthroughs that drive the world forward. 
We have more than 180,000 employees, and we operate in more than 170 countries and regions. 
Founded in 1987, Huawei is a private company fully owned by its employees.
Te Asset Recovery Agency (ARA) has stepped up its push to recover Sh385 million from a businessman it accuses of siphoning the money from the County Government of Mandera.
In submissions filed before the High Court, ARA claims that Ali Abdi Ibrahim cannot explain the source of the Sh385 million found in his two accounts and that the investigations have revealed the money was acquired from three companies that traded with the county government.
State counsel Jennifer Gitiri representing the agency argued that an analysis of Ibrahim’s accounts showed a systematic pattern of money laundering where some of the amounts were deposited in cash while others were wired from other banks.
“The amounts are proceeds of crime that must be forfeited to the state. He has failed to prove how and why the suspicious cash transactions were deposited in his account. He cannot even show evidence of any business he transacted with the county government of Mandera,” said Gitiri.
According to ARA, the huge amounts are suspected to have been stolen from the county government of Mandera and deposited to Ibrahim’s accounts to conceal the source when he has no legitimate businesses to generate the total amount.
Ms Gitiri submitted that the cash was being deposited in his account by unknown people and even after being summoned to explain, he could not tell where the money came from.
She said some of the cash deposit were made in tranches of below Sh1 million to avoid raising suspicion and that records at the Kenya Revenue Authority showed that he did not pay any taxes to prove he was trading with the county government.
“Without any evidence to substantiate the source of his funds, we are left with only one conclusion that they are proceeds of crime. His defence that he was sub-contracted by other companies to do construction work are baseless and lies meant to hoodwink the court,” said Gitiri.
Equity Group has recorded after tax profit of Sh8.7billion in the first quarter of 2021 compared to Sh5.3billion same period last year, the lender said on Wednesday.
The result is a 64 per cent jump from last year same period performance. 
Interest income grew by 32 per cent while non-funded income grew by 30 per cent to contribute 42 per cent of total income.
 Regional subsidiaries registered resilience and robust growth to contribute 40 per cent of total deposits and total assets and 23 per cent of profit before tax with Rwanda and Uganda delivering above cost of capital returns.
The Group registered a balance sheet expansion of 54 per cent to reach Sh1.07 trillion driven by a 58 per cent growth in customer deposits underpinned by Sh140 billion shareholders’ funds.
A liquid balance sheet with Sh500 billion of cash, cash equivalents and government securities reflect the agility to redeploy funding seamlessly as the economies recover from the adverse impact of the Covid-19 multi-crisis.
“Our strategy; purpose-first, inclusivity, affordability, reach, agility and quality have proven resilient and sustainable” said Dr James Mwangi, the Equity Group CEO while releasing the first quarter of 2021 financial results. “Purpose has proved profitable” he added.
During the multi-crisis year, Equity focused on social impact investment in health investing Sh1.7 billion in social response to society, forgoing Sh1.5 billion in waived mobile transaction fees, waiving Sh1.2 billion in loan rescheduling fees and accommodating Sh171 billon (or 31 per cent) of the loan book for up to 3 years of principal and interest repayment breaks to enable businesses to survive.
 “We kept the lights of the economies we operate in on, supported businesses to repurpose, retool and recover by supporting livelihoods of our customers during the crisis”, said Dr Mwangi.
He added, “We have adopted a two-pronged strategy of being offensive and defensive. We strengthened our capital buffers by retaining profits and withholding dividend payouts, took long-term loan facilities that strengthened our liquidity buffers, supported host communities and our clients to mitigate the impact of the crisis on them by waiving fees and rescheduling their loans to match loan repayments to new cashflow patterns."
Internally, we focused on risk mitigation and management in a challenging environment, enhanced our NPL coverage through provisions and sought collaboration with development financial institutions on credit and risk sharing guarantees. 
We evolved our organization structure through strong governance focus on risk management, diversity of skills and competencies to enhance our succession planning and mitigation of key person risks”, added Dr Mwangi.
Operationally, the Group focused on generating and growing non-funded income, treasury efficiency, geographical expansion and business diversification, business transformation through innovation and digitization, balance sheet optimization and agility, asset quality and risk mitigation while pursuing efficiencies and brand development through social impact investment underscoring the performance of the Group.
Of the 31 per cent of the loan book, or Sh171 billion Covid-19 accommodated or rescheduled loan book, Sh59 billion has resumed repayment with Sh 5 billion fully repaid and Sh3 billion behind schedule in repayment. Sh66 billion is expected to resume repayment within six months by 30th September 2021.
Embu and Garissa counties have drastically increased their revenue collection from 2013/14 Financial Year, Commission of Revenue Allocation (CRA) said on Wednesday.
According to CRA, Embu and Garissa have grown Own Revenue Source by 254 and 202 per cent respectively. From the same analysis, 15 counties including Tana River, West Pokot, Lamu, Kirinyaga, Mombasa, Nandi, Kiambu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Laikipia, Taita Taveta, Marsabit, Makueni, Kakamega, Tharaka-Nithi and Nyandarua more than doubled their revenue over the first six years of devolution.
Speaking on the sidelines of Counties Own Source of Revenue report launch in Nairobi, CRA commissioner Dr Irene Koech also noted a decline in revenue collection in Busia, Wajir, Homa Bay and Mandera counties.
Nairobi County on the other side, although raising the highest own source revenue has grown by less than one per cent in the first six years of devolution. 
The commissioner however noted that the county has a potential to finance 40 per cent of its budget.
Narok County collects more than one billion shillings annually similar to city counties.
 Notable is Samburu County that has surpassed its estimated potential while Isiolo, Laikipia and Baringo are among the counties that collect more than 40 per cent of their estimated revenue potential. The potential is based on a study conducted by the National Treasury in 2018 which projected that the counties OSR potential is at Sh172 billion per annum
“County government’s main own-source revenue streams are business permits, property-related revenue and vehicle parking fees,” she says.
“Agriculture- dominated counties are disadvantaged by the narrowness of their significant revenue stream cess, which accounts for only 3 per cent of total county collections.”
Primary revenue streams for county governments are property-related revenue, business permits and vehicle parking fees.
In 2016-17 the three sources accounted for more than 40 per cent of the total own-source revenue for county governments. Specifically, property-related revenue contributed 14 per cent, business permits contributed 15 per cent, and vehicle parking fees contributed 12 per cent.
The report assessed the relationship of county economic activities and county own-source revenue. Diversification in economic activities was found to relate with high revenue collection.
The study also found that forty-one counties are raising less than 40 per cent of their estimated revenue potential, while six counties collect between 50 and 88 per cent of their estimated revenue potential.
Samburu collects 127 per cent of the estimated potential for the county.
Assessing county revenue streams, it was found out that Cess is immaterial as a proportion of total own-source revenue raising only 3 per cent.
In counties that are predominantly agricultural, Cess collection explains the low revenue performance of these counties.
Hospital fees contribute 11 per cent to the overall county own-source revenue while Natural Resource contributes 6 per cent.
On the issue of county financing its budget, urban and peri-urban counties were found to finance their budget more than rural counties. 
Finally, it was found out that majority of counties that collect low revenue have agriculture as the main economic activity.
“These counties collect less than Sh200 million annually on average, while counties that have more diverse economic activities collect more own-sources. Notably, revenue management of game parks by county governments confer a comparative advantage to county own-source revenue.”
The most dreaded question during job interviews is a game-changer depending on your response.
 Your response will either leave you excited or disappointed and most candidates describe it as a landmine question.
And it is usually; why did you leave your previous job?
Here is where you make the blunder as a job seeker.
 Kate Vobic, a media personality who advertises in a business-oriented magazine in Nakuru, stated that an interviewee “gave a breakdown of a bad relationship with his former manager and a bit of anecdotal history of what happened to culminate to his resignation," she says.
According to her, the potential recruit had his CV right and did well in the interview until the landmine question popped up, and he let his resentment of his former boss show.
"That is where he failed spectacularly. The panel wanted to know if he could do likewise in the organization were he to be hired, and his relationship with the boss and coworkers head south," she says. 
Of interest was that the interviewee had listed the former manager as one of his referees.
 It was up to the panel to call and ask a bit about this potential employee – which they did later only to discover he couldn’t get along with the manager over personal issues
History has shown that behaviour breeds behaviour and it is bad to tell on your former employer or supervisor to your prospective one as the latter will wonder if you leave the organization on whatever terms, if you’ll go telling any other future employers about your former ones.
 "It doesn't work that way!" she insists.
She says the misconception is that the candidate hopes to sway the panel to hire him/her on compassionate grounds by telling it about the former employer.
When Njoroge Ng'ang'a, a media personality who has hosted breakfast shows with different media stations, is asked the same question, he knows how to navigate around it well.
Usually, when I leave one organization, it's not about job dissatisfaction but to take new challenges elsewhere. 
"I usually leave on good terms with the employer as I may need their referral or recall me back in the future. If the hiring organizations ask why I left, the answer is always I left the position so flesh blood would take over and grow in their career," he says.
He runs a media business in Nakuru where potential hires seeking work have given some of the reasons, among others, as to why they left employment was because they were dissatisfied with the terms of the pay or had supervisors whom they considered bad managers.
"Usually, these potential hires end up underselling their worth as the terms of pay where they're seeking employment may be different than what they were enjoying under their former employer,” he says.
To this end, he counsels that it's better to know what the potential employer is paying those in similar job positions to the one you're applying for. 
This can be done through networking with insiders in the organization or researching to avoid embarrassing themselves. 
"It's better not to reveal how it was with your former employer. If you disclose the secrets of others, do you think your potential employer can trust you?" he poses.
rown Paints Plc will use the Sh711.80 million being raised via the rights issue to salvage its subsidiaries in Uganda, Rwanda and Tanzania, which the paint and coating firm revealed are struggling with debt.
Just a year after the company wrote off Sh653 million it had invested in its subsidiaries in Uganda and Tanzania, the Nairobi Security Exchange (NSE) listed firm has now turned to its shareholders for more capital.
The company did write off Sh374 million for Crown Paints Tanzania and Sh278 million for Regal Paints, its Uganda subsidiary. The rights issue will see shareholders of the company allowed to purchase additional shares.
On May 7, the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) approved the company's request to raise Sh711.81 million by issuing 71,181,000 new ordinary shares.
Then, CMA noted that the money was meant to bring financial flexibility to the company and assist it in navigating the tough business environment brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic.
"The rights issue is to bring the company’s indebtedness to a more sustainable level and to position it to take advantage of its long-term growth opportunities and gain market share in the East African Region,” said Crown Paints in a cautionary statement signed by Company Secretary Conrad Nyukuri.
Mr Nyukuri said while the company’s parent firm in Kenya is sound, the performance of its subsidiaries – Crown Paints Tanzania Ltd, Regal Paints Uganda, and Crown Paints Rwanda Ltd) has over the past few years remained depressed.
“(This is) due to the adverse competitive environment that has led to the company supporting the subsidiaries financially,” he said.
The firm, in a statement, also warned that despite the enhanced regional integration in the East African Community, there remained challenges in the respective paint makers' markets, thereby negatively impacting the financial performance of the subsidiaries.
The notice added that the company is in contact with the NSE regarding obtaining approval and once issued, it will be promptly uploaded on its website.
“The shareholders of the company and the public are advised to exercise caution when dealing in the shares of the firm,” it added.
Crown Paints Plc opened a depot in Tanzania in 2012 before entering the market in 2014. The plan, as revealed by the paint maker then was to pump in Sh360 million targeting a 50 per cent market share in the country for premium paint.
In Rwanda, the company invested Sh250 million on its entry into the market in February 2015.
The firm intends to raise Sh711.810 million (before expenses) by way of issuing 71,181,000 new ordinary shares at a par value of Sh5 each and a rights issue price of Sh10 per new ordinary share.
As of May 25, the company’s share price at NSE hit Sh40.
The Capital Markets Authority (CMA) has admitted KOA Save Africa Limited and Moneto Ventures Limited to the Regulatory Sandbox.
The two firms will test their innovations in a live capital market environment, in compliance with the CMA Regulatory Sandbox Policy Guidance Notes (PGN), in line with the commitment to develop and deepen the capital markets by facilitating the deployment of financial technology (fintech).
KOA Save Africa Limited has been admitted to the Regulatory Sandbox to test KOA App.
The innovation seeks to help retail investors to easily, conveniently, and affordably, save and invest in the capital markets.
KOA App is accessible to iOS and Android mobile users.
The fully digital mobile application has the capacity to embed several collective investment schemes focusing on money market funds. KOA Save Africa will test its application for a period of six months.
Moneto Ventures Limited will test its Chumz App, a digital application also available on iOS and Android mobile devices.
It uses behavioural psychology techniques to encourage users to save and build a culture of digital savings and investment.
 Moneto Ventures seeks to achieve this by ensuring minimum effort between the decision to save and invest, and the actual deposit while helping investors keep track of their progress on specific goals. 
Moneto Ventures will test its application in the Regulatory Sandbox for one year.
The Authority is delighted to welcome these new innovations for testing in the Regulatory Sandbox because if these innovations are successful, they will significantly reduce the barriers to entry into the capital markets for retail investors.  
"This can be achieved by making collective investment schemes accessible to investors in a more affordable and convenient manner. Successful testing within the regulatory sandbox will ultimately enhance access, usage and the quality of products in the capital markets by leveraging technology,” CMA Chief Executive Wyckliffe Shamiah.
Shamiah also observed that the Authority had surpassed its target of admitting five firms to the Regulatory Sandbox by 2023, as outlined in the Authority’s Strategic Plan 2018-2023.
The Authority has so far admitted nine firms. CMA recently published a report on the milestones it has achieved in the Regulatory Sandbox since its launch in March 2019.
The regulatory sandbox allows live testing of innovations under a less onerous regulatory regime and is expected to attract fintech companies and capital markets licensees such as stockbrokers, fund managers, investment advisors and CIS to test the application of technology on financial services.
In Mid-May, the Capital Markets Authority approved Safaricom’s mobile investment product dubbed Mali.
Mali is an investment-led application that will allow retail investors to save and invest in securities from their mobile phones.
The product is one of Safaricom’s key pillars as it divests from traditional income streams such as voice and moves into digital financial services.
Safaricom Chief Executive Peter Ndegwa last week said the firm was awaiting for approval from the regulators before commercially launching the mobile investment product.
“Mali is currently waiting on decisions from our regulators and we continue engaging them,” Ndegwa said following the company’s investor briefing. As such, we cannot comment on its progress as these conversations are ongoing.”
The move brings the telco a step closer to launching the product that could disrupt retail investing at the Nairobi bourse.
The need to get a Covid-19 vaccine certificate before you travel to any African country or abroad could become a reality over the next 12 months.
BlueBird Aviation General Manager Hussein Mohammed however projects that it would take a little longer for African airlines to fly across borders due to low vaccination rates across the continent.
“If most of the people were vaccinated, it makes it easier for airlines because you have sufficient passenger load that is free to travel. The downside is the adoption of the Covid Vaccine passport worldwide,” he said.
“We cannot act unilaterally. Kenya cannot say we require all passengers to have a Covid-19 passport while Rwanda, UK or Australia don’t require it, then what we will have is that passengers will avoid your airline and go to an airline that will accept Covid-ve test results.”
He said developed nations such as the US have already achieved 70 per cent vaccination of the adult population - who have received their first dose of the vaccine while close to 40 per cent of the population has been fully vaccinated.
The aviation boss said introducing Covid-ve vaccine passports in such jurisdictions is possible compared to Kenya or Africa where many people are yet to get vaccinated.
Here is a situation that will take 12 months or more for 70 per cent of the adult population to be fully vaccinated. 
"We have to be able to be comparable to developed countries. Until we reach such a time when we are comparable to these developed countries, honestly, the Covid Passport is not yet an option for most of Africa,” he noted.
Mr Mohammed sees a combination requiring passengers to produce Covid-19 certificates showing that they are fully vaccinated and those with Covid-ve results before boarding a flight.
“I see that for the next 12 months and probably beyond, that there might be a consensus among people in the aviation industry worldwide agreeing on a specific Covid passport requirement for all travels,” said Mohammed.
The Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) has raised alarm over an increase in excisable products with counterfeit stamps in the market.
Kenya Association of Manufacturers lists cigarettes containing tobacco substitutes, wines and other alcoholic beverages obtained by fermentation of fruits as some of the excisable goods.
Others include mineral water, fruit juices, cosmetics and beauty products, and compounded spirits of alcoholic strengths exceeding 10 per cent.
“The public is forewarned that having excisable goods affixed with counterfeit excise stamps is an offence, consequences, if found, shall be confiscation, seizure and destruction of the goods by the commissioner,” KRA said in a statement.
“A person who contravenes the provisions of the law shall also be upon conviction subjected to a fine not exceeding Sh5 million or imprisonment to a term not exceeding three years.”
KRA also warned that the means of conveyance used to carry such goods is liable for forfeiture as provided under section 211 of the East African Community Customs Management Act 2004.
The taxman has ordered parking attendants in Nairobi to photograph number plates of vehicles whose owners have failed to pay parking fees.
The decision is prompted by the rising number of motorists disputing penalties imposed for failure to pay parking fees.
“To address these complaints, parking attendants in county uniform will henceforth photograph the number plates of non-compliant motor vehicles for reference purposes in case of disputes.”
KRA has also banned the physical VIP parking stickers replacing them with a system where a list of all vehicles that qualify for VIP parking have been uploaded into the Nairobi Revenue System (NRS) parking system.
The Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) took over the collection of revenue in Nairobi County last year following an agreement signed between the then-governor Mike Sonko and President Uhuru Kenyatta.
“According to Article 5.5 of the Deed of Transfer of Function from the Nairobi City County Government to the National Government gazette, February 25, 2020, and per section 160 of the Public Finance Management Act, 2012...the Nairobi City County Government appoints the Kenya Revenue Authority as the principal-agent for overall revenue collection for all county revenue for twenty-four months, with effect from March 16, 2020” read part of the Gazette Notice signed by Finance Executive Allan Igambi.
Former Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo had proposed that counties contract KRA as their revenue collection agents.
“Counties are collecting less revenue than their potential, and this is because of poor systems and leakages,” she said in August 2019.
Artificial intelligence won't replace investment managers, but it could improve returns
It shouldn’t be news to anyone that artificial intelligence (AI) is developing rapidly and drastically reshaping our future. 
Yet what the average pension-contributing individual might not have thought about is how this development will affect the management of his or her pensions and savings in the years ahead.
How might AI affect pensions and savings?
Asset and wealth management firms are working on ways to use AI to improve their investment decisions and to extract insights from historical data, which should increase efficiency, accuracy and compliance. 
Other services, like robo-advisory, are also taking off. 
With the global AI asset management market size expected to be worth almost USD13.5 billion within the next six years, it’s clearly a booming part of the business.
The development of technology in finance and computer-aided algorithms has also contributed to rising interest in low-cost, rules-based, quantitatively-oriented passive investment strategies.
Over the last five years, such strategies have grown by about USD2 trillion while traditional active management strategies declined by roughly the same amount.
Traditional market capitalization-weighted indices – like mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETF) – have also grown over the last five years. 
This has been aided by minimal costs and strong performance due to the extended bull market.
 However, these indices are now being rivalled by other weighting systems that deploy technology to deliver better outcomes and mitigate risks. 
For example, as stakeholders increasingly focus on the harmful role of carbon in global warming and the importance of other ESG-related issues in mitigating portfolio and social risks, asset owners are using technology to adjust market capitalization-weighted benchmarks.
In this way, we expect the role of AI in index investing will have a knock-on effect of improving asset owner and asset manager decisions, focusing them on working with portfolio companies over longer time horizons and supporting companies that, for instance, need to transition away from poor carbon outcomes. 
We further expect that this will lead asset owners to engage more transparently with their constituents (for example, pensioners or retail clients) to explain why such decisions are optimal.
AI will gradually play a greater role in critically assessing human judgements in investment decision-making frameworks, to moderate or counter short-term behavioural biases or even to make judgements without human input.
This will mean a streamlined ability to predict what will happen and the best course of action for financial forecasting. 
This is an improvement on a currently very manual process that suffers from inherent human biases.
Could AI displace investment managers? We don’t think so.
 For AI to be successful in any of this, AI still needs humans. 
What are some of the ethical considerations?
Firms will need to invest in experts to monitor the AI and ensure it functions and make adjustments when needed
This means that investment decisions will still be largely reliant on individual judgement and common patterns of biases, much like they have for the past 20 years.
Using AI in investment management also creates new risks and challenges.
 A model is only as good as the data you put into it – so model opacity and data integrity matter. 
And questions about the ethics in justifying or bounding AI investment decisions will also need to be answered, as well as issues surrounding the regulation of AI systems, the risks of heightened pro-cyclical investment activity and the current lack of a monitoring framework, as AI plays an ever-increasing role in the investment decision-making process.
These questions matter because of the need to maintain and improve the level of trust and confidence in investment management and the broader financial system in general.
 This is partially achieved by explaining transparently how ethical and social responsibility factors can be included in the investment decision-making process at the portfolio, strategic and regulatory levels, so that AI can be developed with proper balance.
At the same time, trust and confidence can only be gained if frameworks are developed to control pro-cyclical investment activity, monitor AI decision-making impacts in financial markets, and enforce the role of human interaction in the investment-management process to oversee and communicate decisions (whether by human or AI).
What should we be doing about these questions?
In order to allow for these positive developments, we need to identify the key stakeholders to manage and encourage positive AI development in the investment management process.
These include regulators, asset owners, asset managers, custodians, investment consultants, legal experts and representatives of retail investors. We also need to identify methods to increase awareness of the AI challenge in the investment management industry.
We need to bring stakeholders together to agree upon an appropriate framework of ethical inputs, regulation and monitoring systems for AI.
Regardless of regulation and monitoring systems, asset managers also need to take it on themselves to address some of these issues in their existing investment process.
We are ultimately optimistic that properly managed AI will support human judgement in managing pensions and savings – and maybe even improve your returns! – by reinforcing best practices and mitigating known biases.
This is part of a series authored by current and former members of the Global Future Council on Investing. 
Views expressed are those of the author alone.
President Uhuru Kenyatta has directed the Kenya Meat Commission (KMC) to partner with relevant State agencies to standardise their products for the export market.
The president, who was speaking during the official re-opening of KMC in Athi River, Machakos County yesterday, said he was optimistic of the meat products reaching the European market.
“We have done it before when Kenyan meat and meat products were sold worldwide and I believe once again meat products should join the growing list of food items that we export to the rest of the world,” he said.
The Head of State said he expects the country’s beef exports to also hit the Middle East as well as emerging markets, where the population is growing and consumers have more purchasing power.
“The Africa continental free trade arrangement coming into force provides an opportunity that should benefit the livestock sector by harnessing the entire supply chain in the meat industry,” he said.
The Head of State said the livestock sector’s potential extends to hides and skin, which informed his administration’s push to breathe life into the tannery industry.
The president, while lauding the positive changes at the commission since its transfer to the Ministry of Defence, said time was ripe for KMC to reclaim its role in the country’s economy.
He said interest from Kenya Prisons, National Youth Service, Kenya Wildlife Service, and police training college contracting KMC for their supplies was a sign of the renewed trust in the commission.
KMC, which was initially under the Ministry of Agriculture, was in September 2020 transferred to the Ministry of Defence.
While the move has been contested in court, President Kenyatta yesterday defended the decision albeit with a lot of care.
“Past administration has made efforts to jumpstart KMC, but for reasons which are known never succeeded and a lot of public funds went astray,” he said.
He noted the transfer had eased payments to farmers — some who had gone for four years without compensation after supplying animals.
The commission plans to pay farmers within 72 hours.
“The commission’s business reorganisation plan has kicked off in earnest with offsetting debts to all farmers,” said Defence Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma.
President Uhuru calls on Kenya Meat Commission to pay farmers within 72 hours after delivery
President Uhuru Kenyatta has called on the new management of the Kenya Meat Commission (KMC) to ensure livestock farmers are paid within 72 hours of animal delivery to the facility.
Speaking when he officially relaunched the Athi-River based facility the president said KMC has the potential to play a significant role in Kenya’s economy. 
He challenged the facility to not only focus on meeting meat demand locally but plan on exporting the surplus to Europe, Middle East and Africa.
“I don’t want to see KMC slipping back to olden days when farmers were paid after four years or not paid, maintain the payment period at 72 hours,” said Uhuru.
“As we focus on the European and Middle East markets, let us also focus on Africa where the population is growing and consumers growingly have better purchasing power,” he added also noting the new African Continental Free Trade Area offers better opportunities.
The State-owned meat processor operated below capacity before the takeover facing challenges that included the unreliable supply of raw material and an ageing plant, which slowed down its operations.
Kenya Meat Commission was transferred to the Ministry of Defence from the Ministry of Agriculture following an order by President Uhuru Kenyatta. 
The processor has also grappled with poor performance since the 1960s because of political interference, and loss of the European Union market due to animal diseases.
Last month, the Kenya Defence Forces called on stakeholders and livestock farmers to submit comments on the transfer of ministerial responsibilities, the comments submission window ended on May 12.
On Monday the president hailed the military for work in rehabilitating the commission saying that the force has spent half of the previous budget in KMC rehabilitation.
In June this year, the Prison department, Kenya Wildlife Service, Police force, National Youth Service are expected to be major customers of the commission after the KDF.
40 new privacy standards approved as cybercrime cases soar 50 per cent
The fight against growing cases of cybercrime on Monday got a boost with the approval of new 40 standards directed at safeguarding consumer privacy.
According to the Communications Authority of Kenya, cybercrime incidences rose by over 50 per cent in the fourth quarter of last year to 56.2 million from 35.1 million threats reported in the previous quarter.
Of note, malware and application attacks continued to rank highly among the factors that have contributed to the surge in cyber-security challenges.
On Monday, the Kenya Bureau of Standards (KEBS) said it has approved forty (40) new standards to be used by auditors, managers and management teams, trainers and assessors in the ICT to enhance information and cybersecurity and safeguard consumer privacy.
The new standards outline various techniques and methods for securing corporate information by an individual or managers charged with the responsibility of ensuring institutional data is safe.
Consumers are increasingly adopting digital technology, the data generated creates both an opportunity for enterprises to improve customer engagement and a responsibility to keep it safe. 
"The new guidelines provide a robust system to fight against cybersecurity threats, breach of privacy and other information security measures to ensure that Confidentiality, Integrity and Authenticity (CIA) of information is maintained during the creation, usage, storage and transfer of information,” says Bernard Njiraini, Managing Director, KEBS.
The standards also stipulate a framework for ensuring privacy in information and communication technology (ICT) systems that store and process personally identifiable information (PII).
Key among the approved standards include guidelines for information security management systems auditing, code of practice for electronic discovery, vulnerability handling process, online privacy notices and consent, cloud service metering and billing modes.
Others include the competence requirements for information security testers, the framework of trust for processing of multi-sourced data.
The World Economic Forum Report 2017 places technology threats in the top five societal and economic risks by likelihood and scale of impact, next to weapons of mass destruction.
The public sector continues to dominate as the primary target of cyberattacks followed by financial services.
Globally, 40 per cent of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) that experience data breach due to cybersecurity attacks are likely to close within a year.
The efforts are the latest in the fight against cybercrime. 
It comes few weeks after the United Kingdom listed Kenya among countries in Africa to benefit from Sh3.3 billion cyberwar chest.
The money targets supporting national cyber response units, advising on consumer safety awareness online and setting up a joint Interpol cyber hub that will help nations mount joint operation on cybercriminals.
The United Kingdom (UK) through its Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab noted with concern the rising number of criminals that target online consumers and disrupting ease of doing business in the modern world.
As part of the new approach to bring down cybercriminals, the UK jointly with INTERPOL, is setting up a new cyber operations hub in Africa working across Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria and Rwanda to support joint operations against cyber-crime.
“We are working with like-minded partners, to make sure that the international order that governs cyber is fit for purpose,” he said.
“We want to see international law respected in cyberspace, just as we would anywhere else. And we need to show how the rules apply to these changes in technology, the changes in threats, and the systemic attempts to render the internet a lawless space.”
The Kenya Bankers Association (KBA), a lobby group for local banks has noted a significant shift in bank customer preferences for digital services which, according to the association’s Customer Satisfaction Survey of 2020, stood at 43 per cent.
"While the banking industry's digital resilience has continued to promote continuity in the financial services sector, rising cases of fraud need to be addressed further through consumer education", says Habil Olaka, Chief Executive Officer, KBA.
"Monitoring fraud trends is critical as it enables stakeholders to identify awareness gaps and ensure the security of consumer monies is guaranteed," he said.
A local airline will offer cheap transport services between Nairobi and Kisumu.
The 748 Air Services will make trips twice daily between Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) and Kisumu International Airport.
The airline’s Managing Director Moses Mwangi and Chairman Ahmed Jibril said passengers on the route would pay Sh10,700 for a return ticket.
“We want to connect important domestic business and leisure locations in Kenya - Nairobi, Kisumu, Kakamega, and its environs,” said Mr Jibril.
Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o officiated the launch of the 748 Air direct flight to Kisumu.
The 748 Air joins Kenya Airways, Fly540 and Safari Link, the airliners that fly daily to Kisumu.
The route that serves travelers to western Kenya is key in promotion of tourism and business in the region.
The move by 748 Air comes barely days after it reverted daily flights from Nairobi’s Wilson Airport to the Masai Mara.
Nyong’o urged airliners flying the Kisumu route to reduce fare to attract more clients.
The launch comes as Kisumu prepares to host Madaraka Day celebrations on June 1.
“We are committed to promoting high level of safety and quality performance to meet national and international standards,” said Jibril.
He also said their services include delivery of cargo to remote destinations, adding the flights offer safe transportation of passenger delegations.
Maersk, the Denmark-based shipping giant, says it is ready to deploy regular vessels to Lamu Port if required.
In a statement issued by Africa Communications Manager Kerry Rosser, the firm, which on Thursday sent the first ship, mv Cap Carmel to Lamu Port, said it did so to support the inauguration of the first berth.
The vessel arrived Thursday morning, signalling the operationalisation of the first of Lamu Port South Sudan Transport (Lapsset) project components.
The same company is expected to deploy Mv Seago Bremen Haven as a show of support.
“As Maersk, the solutions and services we offer are centred around our customers’ needs and once a regular call at Lamu is required by our customers, we will then introduce this. We look forward to serving our customers and Eastern Africa people now and well into the future,” said Carl Lorenz, Maersk Eastern Africa managing director.
Two weeks ago, Mr Lorenz told a stakeholders’ meeting at the Lamu Port that his firm would deploy the first vessel to the new facility.
“Maersk is honoured to have a maiden call at the Lamu Port as part of the inauguration and is poised to support our customers in their future growth within Kenya,” he said.
 In 1978, Maersk said it supported Mombasa Port with a maiden vessel call and has done it again at the Lamu Port.
In a statement, Maersk noted that for over three decades, it has been providing ocean liner services to and from Kenya.
“Maersk considers Kenya an important partner and fully supports the Kenyan government’s endeavours in the development of shipping, maritime, ports and logistics, effectively contributing to the growth of the economy,” he said.
According to the shipping company, Lamu will serve as a gateway to Eastern Kenya, South Sudan and Ethiopia when the port will be fully operational.
 The other Lapsset projects yet to be implemented are international airports, railway line, highway, resort cities, oil pipeline and an oil refinery.
In March 2012, former President Mwai Kibaki performed the groundbreaking ceremony for the Lapsset project at the present Lamu Port.
The first cargo ship Alianco offloads containers at the Lamu Port after President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the port last week.
The government will have the authority to restrict Kenyans’ access to certain websites if the new law that could stoke up opposition from anti-censorship advocates sails through.
According to proposals in the Computer Misuse and Cybercrimes (Amendment) Bill, 2021, the government can classify certain websites as inaccessible from Kenya and recommend their access be blocked.
The Bill which was submitted to the National Assembly last week further proposes a Sh20 million fine or 25-year prison sentence for the possession or distribution of pornographic material.
“The principal object of this Bill is to amend the Computer Misuse and Cybercrimes Act, No. 5 of 2018 to provide for the prohibition against the sharing of pornography through the Internet,” notes the amendments in the Bill proposed by Garissa MP Adan Duale.
“The Bill also seeks to provide an additional function of the National Computer and Cybercrimes Coordination Committee which is to recommend websites that may be rendered inaccessible within the country.”
The amendments come months after the Court of Appeal struck out a petition to suspend 26 controversial sections in the law enacted in 2018.
The Bloggers Association of Kenya, Law Society of Kenya, Article 19 and Kenya Union of Journalists sought a stay of execution until an appeal against the law heard.
In an affidavit to support their case, the Law Society of Kenya Chief Executive Mercy Wambua cites cases where specific individuals had been arrested under the law accused of disseminating false information in respect to Covid-19 related deaths.
“The arrest, arraignment and prosecution for Covid-19 related publications under the statute is likely to have a chilling effect," stated Ms Wambua in her affidavit.
“Bloggers, activists, journalists and whistleblowers will be discouraged from publishing information on a suspected violation of the Ministry of Health Covid-19 guidelines - with grave public health consequences.”
However, the government has defended the law noting that criminalisation of the acts described is an exercise of the State’s duty to care to its citizenry.
“Increased access to the internet and exposure to online risks and insecurity associated with cyberspace is a pressing concern not just in Kenya but the world over,” said Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai in an affidavit.
The law further criminalises the spreading of information the State deems as radicalising in nature.
If approved, it would give the State more control over blocking of content by online users. 
Plans are underway to construct a 181-kilometer dual carriageway between Rironi in Limuru and Mau Summit, Nakuru.
A joint team from Kenya National Highway Authority (KeNHA), Nakuru County engineers and physical planners made a tour of the much-awaited highway.
It was revealed that a toll station will be set up at Gilgil Weigh Bridge and another at Salgaa centre.
 Engineer Kefa Seda, the project manager, said the county will be required to share its traffic circulation so that it is integrated in the highway construction.
Manufacturers can only get Value Added Tax (VAT) refunds on unsold stock.
 This follows a High Court ruling against a petition by three drug manufacturers.
High Court Judge Weldon Korir, while dismissing the petition, noted that the manufacturers had not indicated the unsold stock on which they claimed a refund of VAT input tax. 
Previously known as sales tax, VAT is levied at consumption at a maximum rate of 16 per cent.
“They merely indicated figures which may have included sold stock and this may be unfair and unjust enrichment on their part since the inclusion of sold stock in the figures would mean that the petitioners would benefit by getting input tax relief from the first respondent - Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) - for tax already passed on to consumers,” said Justice Korir in his May 31 ruling.
Refunding VAT paid for raw materials has been a subject of numerous litigation between the taxman and taxpayers, with the government allocating Sh10 billion for the payment of “verified” VAT refund claims.
Universal Corporation Ltd, Elys Chemical Industries Ltd and Dawa Ltd had on December 5, 2017, petitioned the court to declare that they were entitled to VAT refunds, which they had paid for the raw materials bought for their supplies that had until September 2015 had been tax-exempt.
A tax-exempt item is not part of any tax calculations, which is why the manufacturers could not claim input tax. 
If a good or business is “exempt”, the government doesn’t tax the sale of the good, but producers cannot claim a credit for the VAT they pay on inputs to produce it.
For a zero-rated good, the government does not tax its sale, but allows credits for the value-added paid on inputs.
However, the Finance Act of 2015 moved these supplies from a tax-exempt status to zero-rated. 
A section of the VAT Act, 2013 stipulated that wherein future legislation the exempt supplies become taxable after a person had incurred input VAT, the person could claim VAT as long as the claim is lodged within three months from the date the exempt supply become zero-rated.
“Parliament was clear that it did not want taxpayers to recover reliefs from supplies that had already been made and which were previously exempt supplies,” said Justice Korir. 
“It is noted that zero-rated products are cheaper for consumers since the suppliers are allowed to claim the cost of input tax and not pass it to consumers as is the case with exempt supplies.”
KRA had rejected the petitioners’ claim because they lodged it outside of the right period, which is three months since the law took effect on June 15, 2015.
Only unsold stock qualifies for VAT refunds, says court
One of the biggest lies is that the only way for Africans to develop is to burn huge amounts of fossil fuel.
But this dirty energy accounts for more than 80 per cent of planet-heating greenhouse gases.
We have, and can take a different path to prosperity, thanks to our abundance of wind and solar potential.
If we do not, the UN warns, we will be on track to produce far more oil than can fit within the Paris Climate goals. Big Oil’s promises are but snake oil.  
The end result will be stranded assets and climate destruction; not prosperity.
Not surprisingly, those with vested interests in profiting from this climate pollution have given the go-ahead to the East African Crude Oil Pipeline (EACOP), which cuts through the east African backcountry, from Western Uganda to the Tanzanian Indian Ocean port in Tanga, almost 1,500km away.
The UNEP Production Gap report has shown that the production of coal, oil, and gas must decrease by 6 per cent per year globally.
A new pipeline is not consistent with such a trend.
The same cast of rich foreigner bankers is using the tired script and predictable narrative which claims that their profit motive and the interests of ordinary Africans are aligned. 
What a lie! In the case of EACOP, French company Total and China National Offshore Corporation, are among the international financiers keen on profiting from Africa’s climate catastrophe.
It’s good to see pressure from concerned citizens, and many in the Fridays for Future youth movement, being brought to bear on financial institutions to stop financing new fossil fuel projects. 
Banks like Barclays and Credit Suisse came out to categorically state that they would not participate in financing EACOP.
 Lenders like the African Development Bank have made it a policy to only bankroll renewables and other green projects. 
This would suggest momentum is starting to shift, but it needs to move much quicker if we are going to prevent dangerous climate change.
Concerted efforts by groups like deCOALonize through initiatives such as Save Lamu have rallied actors in climate action to make a stand against fossil fuels, leading to the stoppage of a proposed coal-fired plant in the UNESCO world heritage site off the Kenyan coast in Lamu.
These efforts should be sustained globally to shine the light on the risk posed by continued exploration and expansion of fossil fuel projects.
We should not let ourselves to be held hostage by Big Oil but rather pursue a new approach that places a premium on human development and sustainable projects that are clean and green.
Humanity is faced with a global crisis that calls for solidarity and adoption of a model that is in service of people and the planet, rather than corporate profits.
Initiatives like the call for a Fossil Fuels Non-Proliferation Treaty are timely and crucial in the global race to zero emissions. 
It is encouraging to note that Nobel Prize laureates from all over the world, as well as scientists, joined forces ahead of the recent climate summit held by US President Joe Biden to express their support for climate action and phasing out of fossil fuels to preserve our planet.
The continued pursuit of fossil fuels exposes us to a global calamity that puts human security at risk.
Yet we have an abundance of renewable energy resources on the continent and the opportunity to leapfrog the dirty development path to a new model that is founded on clean energy. 
Solar power alone can today meet the world’s global energy demands if it could be harnessed correctly, as it is estimated that the amount of radiation from the sun that reaches the earth in one year is sufficient to meet our energy demands for 7,000 to 8,000 years at the current rate of consumption.
What is needed is commitment and leadership. 
Global leaders have the power and moral responsibility to take bold actions and address the climate crisis facing us.
Now is the time to end new expansion of fossil fuel production and invest in a transformational plan to ensure 100 per cent access to renewable energy across Africa.
Now is the time for developed countries to put their money where their mouth is by honouring a commitment to mobilise at least Sh10 trillion (US$ 100 billion) annually to fund the mitigation and other climate change costs in the developing world.
After all, Africa is responsible for less than 4 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions.
We have seen the world mustering resources and efforts to ward off the global threat of the Covid-19 pandemic.
We saw the world come together to stop an arms race through the non-proliferation treaty of nuclear weapons.
It is now time for another treaty to save the world by switching off the fossil fuel era.
It’s digital all the way or you will be taken out of the game
I recently stumbled upon an old photo showing a long and meandering queue of taxpayers outside Times Tower, Nairobi, waiting to submit their annual tax returns. 
Although the photo is not dated, it could have been years back before the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) automated filing of tax returns.
The long queue could have meant two things.
It was either the last day or a few days to end of June when submission of annual tax returns falls due. 
The situation in that photo got me wondering, what would have happened if submission of annual tax returns was still manual at this time when physical engagements have been restricted as part of the Covid-19 containment measures?
Would this have called for taxpayers to line up at KRA offices in shifts to submit their tax returns?
How safe would this have been for the taxpayers and KRA staff?
Thankfully, the iTax system is in place. 
iTax is a self-service system that enables taxpayers to conduct tax business such as personal identification number (PIN) registration, tax payment, ledger maintenance, application for tax compliance certificates and waiver application, among others.
Taxpayers can do all these from the comfort of their homes or offices. 
The iTax system is especially handy at this moment when taxpayers are filing their 2020 annual tax returns. 
It minimises physical engagements which go a long way in helping flatten the curve. 
Safaricom CEO, Peter Ndegwa holds the 2020 Global Mobile (GLOMO) Award, awarded to Safaricom by Global Systems for Mobile Communications Associations (GSMA) in recognition of Safaricom's outstanding contribution to the mobile industry.
Safaricom can now tap into the lucrative Ethiopian market after the country awarded an operating licence to a consortium that is led by the Kenyan telco.
This paves the way for the company’s expansion into Ethiopia, which has massive opportunities for growth owing to its over 112 million population.
This comes following a decision by the Ethiopian government to award the bid for a second nationwide telecommunication licence to a consortium that includes Safaricom and parent companies Vodacom Group of South Africa and Vodafone Group of UK. 
“The Ministry of Finance and the Ethiopian Communications Authority warmly welcome the award of one new telecommunication licence to the Global Partnership for Ethiopia, a private consortium of Safaricom (Kenya), Vodafone Group (UK), Vodacom Group (South Africa), DCD Group (UK) and Sumitomo Corporation (Japan) and Development Finance Cooperation (DFC) today,” said the country’s minister of finance in a statement yesterday.
According to senior government officials who spoke to news agencies, the consortium placed a USD850 million (Sh85 billion) bid to bag the licence.
MTN International, backed by China, offered USD600 million.
The Safaricom consortium pledged to invest another Sh800 billion over the next 10 years to roll out telecommunication services.
“Global Partnership for Ethiopia is a consortium of reputable telecom companies providing service to over 750 million customers all over the world and committed to create new jobs, support the economy through introduction of new and efficient services,” said Ethiopia Communications Authority (ECA) Director General Balcha Reba.
“I am also very pleased the consortium will invest $8 billion over the next ten years.”
A customer holds a 3G prepaid sim card after buying the service from an Ethio-Telecom shop in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
The decision by ECA comes less than a month after the state regulator received two bids for two licences to roll out nationwide operations under the new market structure.
Securing the bid further puts Safaricom ahead of regional competitors MTN that bid for the licence alongside state-run Ethio Telecom.
“With over $8 billion total investment, this will be the single largest foreign direct investment into Ethiopia to date,” said Ethiopia’s Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed. 
Our desire to take Ethiopia fully digital is on track.
Global service providers have been waiting in anticipation for the liberalisation of Ethiopia’s telecommunications market that began more than three years ago when the Council of Ministers agreed to partial privatisation of Ethio Telecom and the issuance of two other operating licences. 
Ethio Telecom had 50.7 million subscribers as at January 2021, including 23.5 million data and internet users as well as 309,000 and 981,000 fixed broadband and fixed service subscribers respectively. 
While inviting bids at the end of last year, ECA said service providers needed to comply with strict technical and financial qualifications to demonstrate the company had the capacity to manage a licence of its scale.
“Under these licences, service providers will have the right to provide any telecommunication service, including voice, text and data using any technology whether fixed or wireless anywhere within Ethiopia and to send and receive telecommunications to and from outside Ethiopia,” said the authority in its call for bids.
The winning consortium will be allowed an initial licence term of at least 15 years with the possibility of renewal.    
“In addition, the licences will provide each of the licensees the right to obtain access to scarce resources such as radio frequency spectrum, numbering and addressing resources and rights of way with considerations to the time frame to be allotted to the incumbent operator to complete frequency re-farming activities,” said ECA.
Safaricom first announced it was eying entry into the Ethiopian market in 2017 but efforts to enter the market on its own over the past four years made little headway.
The consortium allows the firm to leverage on the resources of its parent company to roll out its suite of products that have proven hugely successful in the Kenyan market.
According to Safaricom’s latest financial results for the year ended December 31, 2020, the company recorded Sh289 billion in revenue from M-Pesa Global, a 54 per cent increase compared to Sh164.7 billion recorded in 2019. 
M-Pesa Global was created following a reorganisation that saw Safaricom and Vodacom acquire full control of the mobile money brand.
The suspects are said to have promised to help the job seekers to secure jobs with, among other organisations, the National Police Service, National Intelligence Service (NIS), Kenya Ports Authority (KPA), and other government parastatals.
Police in Nairobi are searching for a senior prisons officer implicated in a Sh200 million fake jobs racket.
Two suspects have been arrested and are helping the DCI with investigations.
The officer is said to have conned hundreds of desperate job seekers of their hard-earned cash, in the pretext that they could help them secure jobs in Government.
 DCI chief George Kinoti said the senior Prisons officer had been conducting the con game for the last 10 months.
On Friday, officers from the DCI headquarters raided the suspect's home in Nairobi and recovered hundreds of fake job offer letters.
Also recovered from the house of the suspect are fake dollars amounting to Sh2.4 million.
Kinoti said the racket also involved other junior officers, including a driver.
The driver is said to have pocketed Sh5.7 million from unsuspecting job seekers, who were required to pay between Sh300,000 and Sh400,000 to secure jobs.
The suspects are said to have promised to help the job seekers secure jobs with, among other organisations, the National Police Service, National Intelligence Service (NIS), Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) and other government parastatals.
Kinoti said one victim, a woman, was from Kiambu.
She claims to have been conned of Sh800,000 and promised that her three children would secure jobs at the National Health Insurance Fund, Nairobi Metropolitan Services and the Kenya Ports Authority.
The woman however reported the matter to the police after the contacts failed to respond to her calls and claimed that the job offers had been affected by Covid-19 restrictions.
Kinoti said the complainant filed a report with the police in January and investigations began.
Another group of victims who had paid huge amounts of cash to secure jobs were treated to drama when they were taken to the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport for a familiarisation tour.
During the visit to JKIA, close to 60 victims were taken around what they were made to believe would be their new workstation.
They also received a lecture from a person alleged to be from the human resource department.    
They were then directed to report to their new work station March 18, 2021. 
However, that would be the last time they heard from the person who helped them secure their jobs.
“Dejected victims have since been trooping to our headquarters to file reports detailing how they unbelievably fell for the tricksters machinations," Kinoti said on Twitter.  
One crisp morning five years ago, armed with Sh500, 29-year old Nelson Mandela embarked on a fashion design journey.
He was new in the city and was excited about taking a gamble.
He crossed fingers and, like a South African namesake, took a leap into the unknown, armed with faith and confidence.
Mandela walked into Gikomba market and bought two pairs of shoes each at Sh250. 
When he came back to the Central Business district, he sold the shoes at Sh4,500 a pair.
He was only two years old in Nairobi but seemed like he had identified a niche for himself.
He was completing his supply chain management course at Kenya Institute of Management, but here was his heart falling for fashion.
 And the shoes kicked it off perfectly, literally.
Buoyed by the returns, Mandela, who later joined a fashion school, started buying and selling shoes to make profits. 
It was in the process of selling that he found excited clients asking him what outfits could match the shoes.
It was time to climb a step higher on the ladder.
Mandela seized the opportunity and ventured into cloth production.
Now, he owns Logical Clothing, a production house in Kimathi Street’s Eagle House where people order for classy, tailor made outfits.
“This is what I wanted from the outset. I started selling shoes and in 2017 and now dealing with clothing. I pursued procurement in college, which I have never used in the field. My drive to make it in the clothing industry has driven me this far,” says the young entrepreneur, crisp in a suit he has made himself.
His suits, which is what he majorly deals in, are priced between Sh13,500 and Sh150,000.
When a customer orders, he takes two weeks to work on the order and deliver. However, it takes longer with mass orders.
“Some of these suits incur huge production costs. A suit I sold for Sh65,000 cost me around Sh50,000 to produce.”
Mandela, who specialises in corporate suits, wedding suits, events outfits, Ankara dresses for ladies, bridal dresses, khaki pants, and who also sells shoes and shirts, says that one of the most important things that every tailor should have is a production house.
“People want a physical location where they can visit to see what is happening and can launch complaints. It gives them confidence in the business.”
He has employed three tailors, one delivery person and an office messenger, and plans to create a bigger empire going into the future.
“I came to Nairobi in 2014 and by the time I started this business, I was still very green in the city. I started off with Sh500. It was a gamble, but worthwhile. Since, I believe in myself and in every venture I pursue,” says the entrepreneur.
“I have a son and I do not want him to be ravaged by the misery poverty took me through.” Mandela says that he stands out because he is customer-centric.
In my company, we are all about meeting the deadline and expectations of the customer.
I believe in customer satisfaction, which leads to referrals.
 A satisfied customer will pass the good news to another potential one, creating a chain. 
We sell quality clothes; we do not edit photos to promote our brand. 
Unlike many tailors, he is careful with customers’ money.  
 A running joke in this country goes that unless one supervises his tailor and carries weapons that is threatening enough, the tailor will never deliver.
“This industry requires discipline. Customers give us money in advance and if one is not disciplined, you will spend the money and end up grappling with unfinished clothes when delivery time comes.”
Among many other dignitaries that Mandela has dressed include Migori Governor Okoth Obado, Uriri MP Mike Ogolla, CIC Insurance Group General manager Jack Kionga, Natalie Mukundane (Executive Chairperson at African Youth Commission), King Kaka and the whole Kaka Empire and a lot of MCAs.
Some of the challenges he has to weather include dealing with rogue customers, but he has learnt to handle them.
“Sometimes I face clients who do not want to pay. Some complain about small details they feel do not please them and want to default payment."
 However, we strike a dialogue and are able to reach a solution.
His role model is Robert Pauley III, famously known as The Wealth Guy, a New York City fashion designer who Mandela describes as a very talented and smart man.
Has he ever wanted to quit?
In 2018, things were not going well as I was so hard pressed that I wanted to go back to my village in Uriri.
 I remember I posted a photo of my son on social media around that time. 
A person from my home village texted me, telling me how big a role model I was to a lot of people.
 Suddenly, I felt some kind of motivation. Someone had just confessed that I was an inspiration to them. 
Which role model gets frustrated and goes home to sulk?
He says that he realised that they were so many people who admired him and quitting would frustrate more than just himself.
I stayed put in the city.
Ethiopia's telecommunications regulator awarded one operating licence to a consortium led by Kenya's Safaricom and Japan's Sumitomo, Brook Taye, a senior adviser at the Finance Ministry, said on Saturday.
The consortium which includes Safaricom’s parent companies Vodacom and Vodafone, and the British development finance agency CDC Group, paid Sh91.9 billion for the licence, Brook said.
They edged out MTN International Mauritius, a subsidiary of South Africa's MTN Group which had offered Sh64.9 billion for the contract.
The two were the only companies to successfully bid for the licence.
Nine other companies had expressed interest in the auction.
The firms are Orange, Snail Mobile, Etisalat, Axian, Telkom SA, Saudi Telecom Company, Electromecha International Projects, Kandu Global Communications and Liquid Telecom.
The nine are said to have dropped their interests in the latter stages of the process alleging lack of transparency and the fees the Ethiopian government was asking from them.
In the bid requirements, the government wanted the telecommunication companies to build their own network infrastructure such as towers.
Africa's second-most populous country is hoping that the opening of one of the world's last major closed telecoms markets will create millions of online job opportunities.
As the licence fee, the consortium plans to invest up to Sh919.7 billion in infrastructure among other areas, Brook said, adding that it was expected to create between 1 and 1.5 million jobs.
The two will secure full operating licences, but will not be allowed to operate mobile phone-based financial services, government officials said last year.
The operator will begin with 4G services, Brook said.
We will soon open a bid for the remaining licence, said Balcha Reba, director-general of the Ethiopian Communications Authority.
Balcha said MTN's offer was deemed too low.
Businesses that previously depended on walk-in traffic or window shopping to make their money have been disrupted by the coronavirus pandemic.
Thanks to technology and the Internet, online shopping has become the lifeline for many businesses.
To avoid contracting coronavirus, many Kenyans have resorted to shopping online and goods are delivered at their doorsteps.
“Shopping patterns changed when Covid came, clients were skeptical about shopping online,” says Brenda Mugambi, an online entrepreneur. 
She says clients were mostly worried about their safety - whether it was safe to shop for clothes. 
“This was a blow to my business,” Ms Mugambi says. 
The fashion retailer, who runs an online shop called Starsjoaillere, started her business in 2015.
“When restrictions were eased in the country, I saw a different trend again. I think it is because people could go out again. There was an increase in demand,” she says. 
In addition, many clients work from home. 
Operating online, she says, has eased the shopping experience for most of her clients as they can easily get what they want from the comfort of their couches.
She compares sales from the previous years before Covid: “Business was doing well prior to Covid, there was however an adverse effect when Covid came.”
There was high demand before the pandemic but “our clients have lost jobs, others had pay cuts which in turn affected our revenues.” 
“Starsjoaillere ensures customers are satisfied by maintaining proper channels of communication, seamless and speedy delivery of orders and quality products that suit their needs,” adds Mugambi.
And like other digital businesses, online retailers are faced with technological challenges.
“We have clients who are still trying to adjust to the digital space. Some also question our authenticity as a business because we do not have a physical location,” Mugambi says.
Many people are also not connected to the internet, therefore their product marketing cannot reach everyone. 
Mugambi’s desire to cater for the needs of the modern woman inspired her to start the business. 
“I saw a gap in the market, it was a challenge to find exciting and affordable shops that would suit the modern woman,” she says.
In 2019, a third-year student pursuing a course in biotechnology started an online shop; Thrift With Dola, with Sh3,000.
Viola Dola adds to the list of other online retailers who sell second-hand clothes.
Washed, ironed, folded to ensure the edges pop out, a little perfume if necessary; that is what sets a physical ‘mtumba’ and an online shop apart.
 From the same source, the only difference is how it is delivered.
“My shop deals in official pants, mom jeans, corduroy pants, joggers, cargo pants, tops and blazers,” says Ms Dola.
She says online selling was convenient as she could not run a full-time business, and therefore saw no need to pay rent for a shop.
Dola enjoys the rush of getting new products to restock her shop. “I go to the market in the wee hours to ensure I get the best for my customers.
“I go home, wash them, iron, decorate and take pictures to upload on my Instagram account, which is my shop,” she says.
The first few weeks after Covid were tough for her because of the ban on the importation of second-hand clothes.
“People were not buying clothes because they were working from home,” Dola says. Most of her clients, however, were students.
“The purchases were great before Covid, and I moved to online when the pandemic came, and then gradually sales started improving. Going digital was a survival mechanism for me.” 
Dola can tell that her clients are satisfied from the feedback she gets, though the favoured way of shopping is still going to the physical shop and trying out clothes. 
“Some people don’t know their body sizes, hence they can’t buy online,” she says. 
An ICT survey conducted in 2016 by Kenya National Bureau of Statistics and the Communication Authority of Kenya established that 39 per cent of private businesses engage in e-commerce.
Martha Nyambeki a banana farmer harvests some of her bananas at Nyambaria Nyamira County on April 8, 2019
On the Saturday of December 12, 2002, I was part of the sea of humanity that took over the entire of Eastlands from the airport, the Central Business District and Uhuru Park. 
There was an aura of change on the country’s top leadership.
The current president was the ruling party’s presidential candidate. 
The captain of the Opposition had been injured on a road accident days earlier and flown to the UK for specialised treatment. 
And he was returning home for the ballot that would end the 40-year-era of the independence party. 
At that time, nobody worried much that the captain was injured because around him was a robust team.
The climax of the day was a chaotic rally at Uhuru Park late into the evening.
The import of my discussion today is from the speech of the then vice captain, the late Michael Kijana Wamalwa.
In his wisdom, he had captured the essence of the moment with these words: “For a great leader to realise his greatness, he must stand on the shoulders of other great leaders.”
This statement sums ups the workings of an economic system. The economic growth that we measure under the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is a sum total of several independent variables interacting under the directive of top leadership in the country.
Extractive political institutions destroy the genius of economic forces to organise the national endowments, talents and the reward system to generate the desired economic outcomes.
In the eyes of the late Wamalwa, for an economy to redistribute the national wealth equitably, then policy and political leaders must not only focus on the parts of the economy but also their interactions as a whole. 
In the current regime, big infrastructure projects have been highlighted as the pillars of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s legacy. 
Unfortunately, a legacy is not something that you can do projects towards, but the outcome of several daily activities happening across all government sections and departments.
Empirical evidence on economic development identify investments in physical capital, human capital, technological progress, natural resources and property rights, and political stability as drivers of economic growth.
On the other hand, government consumption spending, political and social instability, trade barriers and socialism reduce economic growth.
If these are the drivers and inhibitors of growth, how then do we appraise the preoccupation with the legacy projects?
All sectors matter individually and collectively. Investments in physical capital include machinery, tools and building that enhance workers productivity.
 It is unacceptable that the economy is heavily reliant of subsistence farming using equipment of the agrarian era. 
This implies that the country has failed to leverage on modern productive capacities to exploit her labour force.
Human capital refers to the combination of education, health and other non-physical assets of the nation’s workers to enhance their productivity.
 Relevant education that impacts economic growth is both formal and informal. Formal education is measured through public spending to finance learning institutions and time students spend in formal schooling. 
There is a positive relation between the number of years students spend in school and the economic growth of a country.
The informal education is considered from the competencies that a country’s workforce acquires from the workplace.
 According to World Bank, Kenya’s spending on education as a ratio of the GDP was 3.93 per cent in 1971, 7.3 per cent in 2005 and 5.3 per cent in 2018. 
While this is higher than the sub-Saharan Africa average, the return on investments is lost with the higher levels of unemployment or underemployment.
The economy is heavily dependent on imports and predominantly informal that it misses out on the informal education economic benefits. 
On health, in 2018 Kenya spent a paltry 5.17 per cent of her GDP compared to the world average of 9.85 per cent. 
This would imply that in addition to the national disease burden, Kenya’s workforce productivity would be significantly compromised due to health-related complications.
The genius of technological progress is the return on investments in education and health. 
The knowledge acquired is meant to stir innovation and creativity among the population. 
Government spending in research and development is an important element in measuring a country’s ability to create and innovate.
Unfortunately, our public expenditure in research and development has remained below 0.8 per cent compared to an average of about four per cent by South Korea, one of the world’s highest investor in this variable. 
Technology transforms resources into improved final products. 
While there is no doubt that Kenya is well endowed with very many creative minds, our political institutions and national leadership have failed miserably to harness, coordinate, protect and commercialise these innovations.
It is the obligation of the government to establish an enabling environment to allow the most talented to thrive. 
Unfortunately, our political leadership promotes cronyism, mediocrity and a toxic business environment through punitive tax regimes and poorly thought out macroeconomic policies. 
In any case, it is economic hogwash to talk of huge infrastructural investments if they are not designed and built by our own engineers and designers, and majority of the supplies are not sourced from within the economy.
On natural resources, we have not been endowed with non-renewal resources. But we have plenty of renewable resources. 
The world has significantly shifted into Green Growth and Circular Economic models. 
This calls upon our policy makers to make a deliberate effort to integrate green energies into our building technologies.
 It demands that green energy should be our primary source at both industrial and household levels.
 Our waste management system must be turned into frontier industries of the 21st century. 
Relevant green technologies on waste management already exist.
On the final question of property rights and political stability we score probably three out of 10 at best.
It is an open secret that it is difficult to trust the authenticity of government documents on properties. 
Citizens too have no shame copying and commercialising others’ innovations without rights.
 An economy whose leaders cannot assure the sanctity of property rights nor guarantee protection of innovations of its citizens is doomed ab initio. No investor or creator will want to put all their energy and soul into such a system.
With hindsight from models of effective economic structures, the late Michael Kijana Wamalwa had this in mind: That for the king to be great, then he must surround himself with fine and polished men and women in their own fields of expertise. 
That model of leadership abhors sycophancy and mediocrity not only in the politics of the day, but also in the management of the economy.
To reboot the economy, we must not focus on sectors at expense of others
Unfair tax regimes are costing the world’s largest economies up to Sh3.2 trillion ($32 billion) from the global big tech firms, Action Aid has said.
The money is enough to have every person in the world given two doses of Covid-19 vaccine, said the organisation, which focuses on the eradication of poverty.
Action Aid said in a statement that tech firms such as Alphabet, Facebook, Apple, Microsoft and Amazon should be made to remit tax according to the profit they make in each country they operate.
“Tech giants Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Alphabet have extensive market activity across the world and have racked up billions in profits during the pandemic,” the statement said.
“If global corporate tax systems were fair, governments could increase their tax revenue and fund better health systems to end the pandemic and start the recovery.”   
Action Aid said if this is done, in just one year Sh3.2 billion would be collected from the five tech firms alone.
“$32 billion would cover vaccine doses only, not the full costs of the vaccine rollout. This figure merely offers a sense of the scale of resources involved in taxing big tech companies,” it said.
Some of these tech giants have, through corporate social responsibility, contributed to the fight against Covid-19, led by Microsoft founder Bill Gates through the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.
In the recent surge of cases in India, Microsoft through Oxfam India and Unicef crowd-funded Sh300 million to support the country’s response. 
“Tax revenue from tech giants with economic presence in the global south is even more crucial for much-needed investment in public services, such as healthcare and education, which have been decimated by the pandemic,” said Action 
Absa Bank Kenya has reported a 24 per cent increase in profit after tax to Sh2.4 billion for the first quarter ending March 31, 2021, compared to a similar period last year.
The performance was mainly driven by growth in interest income, particularly in the small and medium enterprises segment as the bank continued to support businesses to recover from the impact of Covid-19.
All the lender’s business units remained profitable and resilient, registering growth on key lines with all businesses registering growth year-on-year, Absa Bank Kenya Managing Director Jeremy Awori (pictured) said in a statement yesterday.
“In confronting the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, we have been greatly inspired by the ingenuity and undying determination espoused by our fellow Kenyans to rise above the storm and keep going,” he said.
Total income grew by two per cent to Sh8.8 billion, mainly driven by the growth of interest income, which was up six per cent year-on-year on the back of increased lending. 
Costs dropped by 0ne percent compared to a similar period of 2020.
Net customer loans went up eight per cent to close at Sh218 billion as customer deposits also grew by a similar marginto Sh257 billion.
The Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) is expected to collect Sh279 billion in two months to meet its target for the financial year.   
This translates to an average monthly collection of Sh139 billion in the months of May and June, a huge task for a taxman that managed to net a monthly average of Sh119 billion between July 2020 and April this year.
Data from the National Treasury shows that KRA collected Sh1.19 trillion by end of April against a target of Sh1.47 trillion for the 12-month fiscal period to June.
This leaves it with a difference of Sh279.1 billion, which is to be filled in the remaining two months, a failure to which the government will have to borrow more or cut spending.
According to a Sh256 billion, three-year programme that the government has with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Kenya is expected to cut spending rather than increase borrowing in case tax collection underperforms.
“During this period, in case of any tax shortfall that would compromise the achievement of the primary deficit…the authorities are committed to identifying expenditure offsets,” said the IMF in a report, noting that depending on the extent and nature of the shortfall, the country could also be forced to look at additional tax measures.
Tax revenue performance has been negatively affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, first recorded in the country in March last year.
A lot of businesses have shut down even as workers have lost their sources of livelihood, leading to less tax collection.
In the 10 months to April 2021, total expenditure was Sh2.16 trillion against a budget of Sh2.94 trillion.  
During the period, ministries spent Sh826 billion on recurrent expenditure including salaries and other administrative costs against projected spending of Sh1.08 trillion.
Consolidated Fund Services (CFS), which includes first-charge expenditures such as payment of interest on debts, pensions and salaries to constitutional officer holders, took up Sh841.1 billion against a target of Sh1.07 trillion.
A big chunk of the money was spent on the payment of debt. For every Sh100 that the government collected in taxes in the 10 months of the financial year, Sh64 went to paying the debt.
Development spending took up Sh258.2 billion, or just 64 per cent of a budget of Sh401.4 billion. Seven State agencies had not received a single shilling from the Exchequer by end of April.
Counties, which have also complained about a delay in disbursement of funds, had received Sh239.8 billion against a total allocation of Sh383.6 billion inclusive of conditional grants.
Other than revenue from taxes and ministerial fees, the National Treasury receipts also included external and domestic loans.
President Uhuru Kenyatta when he officially opened the 114km Garsen-Witu-Lamu road on his way to Lamu County to preside over the operationalization of the first berth of the new Lamu Port.
The government has proposed to allocate Trade and Industrialisation ministry Sh6.8 billion in the 2021/2022 financial year, inline with the Big Four Agenda.
The Big Four Agenda is part of President Uhuru Kenyatta legacy projects.
According a report by the National Assembly committee on trade and industrialisation, this figure is proposed by the National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani in the next budget, to be unveiled early next month.
Of this amount, Sh2.2 billion is for recurrent expenditure and Sh3.7 billion is for development expenditure.
An analysis by the committee states that the key outputs for the coming financial year and medium term period will be promotion of industrial development and investments, standards and business incubation, development of Athi River textile hub and Special Economic Zones (SEZs).
The department is also expected to modernise the foundry plant at Numerical Machining Complex (NMC), a one-stop-shop centre for investment facilitation, modernisation of Rivatex machinery and cotton extension subsidy and provision of credit to MSMEs.
Others will be construction and equipping of industrial research laboratories in Nairobi and upgrading and completion of stalled infrastructural projects at KITI.
The committee chaired by Adan Haji also oversees the state department of cooperatives, state department for trade and enterprise development, state department for cooperatives and the National Treasury.
In the next financial year and over the medium term, the state department for cooperatives will implement one programme - co-operative development and management. 
Key targeted outputs include registration of SACCOs, rehabilitation of Coffee Cooperatives, restructuring the Kenya Farmers Association and a Co-operative share trading platform.
The single programme in the 2021/2022 Financial Year also includes increasing coffee production, value addition technologies adopted by co-operatives, modernisation of new KCC processing plant and completion of Co-operative Management Information System (CMIS).
The submitted budget estimates is proposing to allocate the cooperative department Sh1.6 billion of which Sh1.2 billion is for recurrent expenditure and Sh374.6 million is for development expenditure.
In an analysis seen by Standard, the state department for trade and enterprise plans to implement one programme in the coming financial year under which it will enhance trade development and promotion.
The key targeted outputs include completion of negotiations for a bilateral free trade agreement between Kenya and the US as well as Kenya and UK.
The department will also focus on seizure and destruction of counterfeit goods, promotion of domestic trade and entrepreneurship through construction and completion of CIDC and operationalisation of Kenya National Multi-Commodities Exchange Limited (KOMEX) trading platform.
“The submitted estimates for the financial year 2021/22 is proposing to allocate state department for trade and enterprise Sh3.3 billion of which Sh2.1 billion is for recurrent expenditure and Sh1.2 billion is for development expenditure,” read an analysis from the committee.
The budget estimates have been prepared against a background of a recovering global economy from effects of the outbreak and rapid spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.
There is still uncertainty on when Kenya and the entire world will contain the pandemic, however, there are expectations of a vaccine powered economic recovery with continued reopening of economies.
In the FY 2021/22 revenue collection including Appropriation-in-Aid (AIA) is projected to increase to Sh2 trillion (16.4 per cent of GDP) up from the estimated Sh1.8 trillion (16.6 per cent of GDP) in the FY 2020/21.
CS Ukur Yatani at The National Treasury before proceeding to Parliament Building to present the 2020/2021 Budget Statement.
resident Uhuru Kenyatta government has proposed to allocate the state department of industrialisation Sh6.8 billion in the 2021/2022 financial year, in line with his 'Big Four Agenda'.
According to a report by the National Assembly committee on Trade and Industrialisation, the figure proposed by the National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani is to be unveiled in the next budget early next month before Parliament.
Of the amount, Sh2.2 billion is for recurrent expenditure and Sh3.7 billion is for development expenditure.
The proposed allocation represents an increase of Sh 65.9 billion from the Budget Policy Statement (BPS) approved ceiling.
An analysis by the committee states that the key outputs for the coming financial year and Medium Term period will be the promotion of Industrial development and investments, standards and business incubation, development of Athi river textile hub and development of Special Economic Zones (SEZs).
The department is also expected to modernize the foundry plant at Numerical Machining Complex (NMC), a one-stop-shop centre for investment facilitation, modernization of Rivatex machinery and cotton extension subsidy and provision of credit to MSMEs.
Other key output areas will be the construction and equipping of industrial research laboratories in Nairobi and upgrading and completion of stalled infrastructural projects at KITI.
In the next financial year and over the medium term, the state department for cooperatives will implement one programme- co-operative development and management.
Key targeted outputs include registration of SACCOs, rehabilitation of Coffee Cooperatives, Restructuring of the Kenya Farmers Association and a Co-operative share trading platform
The single programme in the 2021/2022 Financial Year also includes increasing coffee production, value addition technologies adopted by co-operatives, modernization of new KCC processing plant and completion of Co-operative Management Information System (CMIS).
The submitted budget estimates is proposing to allocate the cooperative department Sh1.6 billion of which Sh1.2 billion is for recurrent expenditure and Sh374.6 million is for development expenditure.
The key targeted outputs include the completion of negotiations for a bilateral free trade agreement between Kenya and the US as well as Kenya and the UK.
The department will also focus on the seizure and destruction of counterfeit goods, promotion of domestic trade and entrepreneurship through construction and completion of CIDC and operationalization of Kenya National Multi-Commodities Exchange Limited (KOMEX) trading platform.
“The submitted estimates for the financial year 2021/22 is proposing to allocate state department for trade and enterprise Sh3.3 billion of which Sh2.1 billion is for recurrent expenditure and Sh1.2 billion is for development expenditure,” read an analysis from the committee on trade, industry and cooperatives.
The 202/2022 Financial Year budget estimates have been prepared against a background of a recovering global economy from the effects of the outbreak and the rapid spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.
There is still uncertainty on when Kenya and the entire world will be able to contain the pandemic, however, there are expectations of a vaccine powered economic recovery with the continued reopening of economies that are improving economic activities.
In the FY 2021/22 revenue collection including Appropriation-in-Aid (AIA) is projected to increase to Sh2 trillion (16.4 per cent of GDP) up from the estimated Sh1.8 trillion (16.6 per cent of GDP) in the FY 2020/21. 
Zadock Matara displays his fruits at Suneka market in Kisii County. 
The ACEA Buyer-Seller Platform aims to connect agribusiness players from the East Africa Community.
An online agribusiness market to help farmers in the East Africa Community sell agricultural produce has been unveiled.
Agribusiness Confederation of East Africa (ACEA) has launched the online agribusiness market to help sellers in the region find markets for their green produce. 
Dubbed the ACEA Buyer-Seller Platform, it aims to connect agribusiness players in the agriculture value chains from the East Africa Community. 
East African countries produce a lot of agricultural products but the challenge remains market for these products.
Through the platform which is free to register, farmers are able to market their products to all potential clients, such as wholesalers, importers, exporters and supermarkets around the region that already use the platform and exchange contacts for further business transactions. 
ACEA is the regional apex body for private sector associations and federations in the agribusiness sector. 
It is the main voice and representative of the private sector agribusiness stakeholders in the East African Business Council. 
Speaking from Rwanda in an event launched virtually in Nairobi, Robert Rukundu Chairperson of Agricultural Exporters Association of Rwanda said the country produces a lot of agricultural produce but lack information on markets.
“The platform will offer us good opportunity to penetrate markets as we share information regarding which markets for which product,” he explained.
He said ACEA will not interfere or get involved in the logistics, business transactions between buyers and the sellers who connect through the platform.
Victoria Sekitoleko, from the Uganda business community, said though local farmers have produced plenty of agricultural produce, lack of market has forced them to sell through brokers who offer poor prices.
“Ugandans are happy with the formation of the platform. They will do even better when they have the system,” she said.
Dr Kevit Desai, Principal Secretary, State Department of East African Community, lauded the platform saying it is a remarkable step towards digitisation of intra-regional trade.
He challenged the stakeholders as they launch the portal, is important to reflect on the status of the agricultural sector and the underlying factors that have impeded regional trade such as low-level agricultural activities, extension systems, inadequate value addition and declining soil utility.
“We need to influence the formulation and implementation of policies and strategies for the improvement of agriculture value chains, and promote common interests of individual agriculture businesses in the East region,” he said.
The PS added that to improve intra-regional trade, in the agricultural sector there is a need for data.  
The stakeholders reiterated that the greatest struggle is revolutionising a traditional sector through new technologies.
Fortunately, the new generations of agriprenuers are helping this narrative, as they are open to innovative platforms and applications. 
Dr Bimal Kantaria, Chairman, Agribusiness Confederation of East Africa and Agriculture Sector Network (ASNET) lauded the platform saying it will bridge the gap between the buyers and sellers.
“...coming together, trying to reduce duplication within the region and focus on agriculture and agribusiness might help increase banking investments in agriculture sector,” he said.
Jacqueline Mukindi, from Tanzania, said they are happy to formalise agribusiness trade in the East African region.
“The millions of Tanzanians engaged in farming are excited about the new platform as it will help in regional agriculture trade,” she said.
Rajan Shah, from the Kenya Association of Manufacturers, said the platform will put farmers and buyers into direct contact with each other, removing the middleman.
“The middleman has been filling the gaps of inefficiencies, but putting buyer and seller together is going to bring in more price transparency,” he said.  
Rajan explained that when the buyer and seller are in direct contact there is better communication of the expectation of the product quality and the standardization.
He is optimistic the ACEA Buyer-Seller Platform will trigger players like banks and insurance companies to play effective roles in unlocking capital.
Peter Mathuke, Secretary-General, East African Community who was the Chief guest praised stakeholders behind the portal saying they are critical in influencing business policy at regional level.
“Article 105, of the treaty clearly provides for a scope of cooperation and promotion of agriculture within East African Community. It calls for partner states and players to come up together and coordinate and come up with a clear framework on how to promote agriculture in East Africa. And this is what you are doing as ACEA,” he said.
Mathuke highlighted that an important pillar for a very successful seller-buyer platform is to ensure there is two-way communication between those participating communities.
“The communication should be clear in terms of what is required and specifications. But also respect for those who are providing services from those producing and consuming,” he said.
He challenged ACEA stakeholders to consider applying for observer status within the East African Community that will give them a better platform to engage with all the policymakers. 
RBA Chief Executive Officer Dr Nzomo Mutuku: Kenya has a very good retirement benefits regulatory framework that provides a safe environment for saving for retirement
The Retirement Benefits Authority (RBA) is celebrating 20 years at a time when Kenya’s Pension Industry growth is on an upward trajectory with pension assets hitting Kshs 1.4trn as of December 2020 up from less than sh100bn two decades ago.
The Authority’s target is to grow assets to Kshs 2.4trn and expand pension coverage to 30 per cent of the labour force by 2024 from the current 22 per cent and 10 percent in 2000.
When the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country, pension schemes, just like other sectors of the economy, experienced challenges. 
Employers shut down operations, retrenched staff or sent them on unpaid leave. 
Some employers, though still operating, were forced to temporarily suspend their contributions to pension schemes. 
 Investments by pension schemes were affected due to the high volatility in the capital markets.  
Meetings such as scheme Annual General Meetings had to be postponed or shifted to online channels.
It is through the Authority’s implementation of strong risk management measures that ensured pension schemes sustained their operations and the impacts were minimised.
We are now confident that as the pandemic eases the industry will bounce back stronger than before and allow the affected pension scheme members to continue growing their kitties.
One key lesson that we must never forget from the pandemic is the need to prepare for emergencies and retirement since no one knows when their income can be cut off. 
When Covid-19 struck and some workers found themselves suddenly retrenched, those who had earlier been saving for retirement had a critical cushion that they could count on.
Those who had not been saving were in a truly desperate situation.
Whether formally employed or self-employed, anyone earning an income can join a pension scheme and start saving towards their retirement.
The Authority has licensed over 35 individual pension plans to cater for the self-employed and workers whose employers have not established pension schemes.
Specifically, the Authority is targeting to have more people in the informal sector join pension schemes.
In our 2019-2024 strategic plan, we have outlined the strategies we will use to achieve this goal and the key entails the design of products suitable for the informal sector and leveraging on technology to make them accessible to all Kenyans.
Already individual pension schemes have rolled out products that allow seamless saving through mobile phones with flexible entry and exit for members to fit the lifestyle and taste of informal sector entrepreneurs and workers.
Over the two decades of RBA’s existence, the number of pension industry service providers has increased.
The industry now has 31 administrators, 24 fund managers, 11 custodians and more than 50 fully qualified actuaries.
Some of the remarkable changes the Authority has overseen across the 20 years include the introduction of individual pension schemes for the self-employed and those in the informal sector; umbrella pension schemes for employers; post-retirement medical fund to cater for medical needs after retirement; income drawdowns (before this retirees could only take lump-sum amounts or annuities) and use of pension funds in mortgages (initially, assigning 60 percent of pension funds to access mortgage and now use of 40 per cent of these funds to directly buy a house).
Additionally, the guidelines issued by RBA have aided industry players to operate under clear rules. 
These include good governance, treating customers fairly, scheme expenses, income draw-down and post-retirement medical fund guidelines.
I want to assure the public that Kenya has a very good retirement benefits regulatory framework that provides a safe environment for saving for retirement. 
The checks and balances that ensure good governance in the industry support its growth. 
Trustees, custodians, fund managers, administrators and RBA all have their roles and the rules they must observe are clearly spelt out.
The reforms we have carried out in the industry over the two decades have been positive with the latest being the rules on mortgages that now allows pension scheme members to use up to 40 percent or Kshs 7.0 million of their pension savings to purchase a residential house. With the enactment of this amendment and the regulations, pension schemes - through their trustees - have until September 2021 to amend scheme documentation accordingly to facilitate members enjoy this benefit.
We expect many Kenyans who belong to retirement schemes to seize the opportunity and use their pension savings to buy homes as part of securing a comfortable life in retirement.  
With the secure regulatory framework under the 20-year-old RBA, the introduction of new schemes easily accessible to the informal sector, the tax incentives given by the Government for saving through retirement benefits schemes, great value additions such as post-retirement medical and mortgage access and learning from the lessons of the Covid-19 pandemic there is no reason why any Kenyan should not be saving for retirement.
A former banker fired by his employer over an allegation that he caused it to lose Sh140 million has been awarded Sh17 million.
John Wanjohi had worked for the National Bank of Kenya for 29 years before he was kicked out in 1999. 
He had joined the bank on March 11, 1970 as a clerk and rose through the ranks to a branch manager. 
He was summarily dismissed following an allegation that he caused the bank to lose Sh140 million between 2007 and 2009.
Aggrieved, Wanjohi sued NBK arguing that he was a victim of a witch-hunt.
 He claimed the bank’s management was hell-bent to get rid of its old staff and he was a victim.
“I was dismissed without notice in an exercise that was malicious and purely meant to save the defendant financial expenses,” he testified.
Labour Court Judge Nduma Nderi found that he was not given a chance to rebut the allegations, adding that the bank had an option to retire him and pay his pension but did not.
According to the judge, the loss allegation was false. 
He noted that it was an embarrassment for a senior employee to be unceremoniously kicked out after diligently serving the bank for 29 years.
According to Nderi, Wanjohi suffered financial loss being the effect of the sacking, developed diabetes due to stress and suffered loss and damage associated with the sudden loss of income and non-payment of pension dues that had accrued over a 29-year period.
The bank had accused Wanjohi of, among others, deliberately making false and misleading returns and records of transactions involving the bank and third parties.
Maana Lifestyle Supermarket attendant arranges bread at Luanda town in Vihiga on April 11, 2020.
Bakers have criticised the government’s move to introduce value-added tax (VAT) on bread and its products.
The Bakers Association of Kenya (Bake) says the tax is inhumane, considering the economic downturn the sector has suffered since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic last year.
It argues that introducing the tax will deny majority of Kenyans access to quality food.
“The introduction of 16 per cent VAT on this commodity will further increase the average price of a 400g loaf of bread by approximately Sh8, making it unaffordable to the majority of Kenyans,” said Bake in a letter to the National Treasury.
This will be in violation of the fundamental right to affordable food.
The planned tax comes a few months after manufacturers increased the price of bread by Sh5 following a jump in global wheat prices.
The price of bread has remained stable over the years due to zero-rating on tax, with manufacturers competing for the small margins buoyed by economies of scale.
The government, however, argues that it needs to find ways to support its 2021-2022 budget. 
Treasury has estimated that it will borrow about Sh1.5 trillion by July. 
However, most of the revenue-collection measures highlighted in the Finance Bill, 2021 are generally aimed at deepening the tax bracket rather than widening it.
The key targets are fuel, alcoholic drinks, betting, cigarettes and financial transactions, with bread and milk formula slapped with 16 per cent VAT.
Kenya Power and Lighting Company's technical team at KPLC Huruma Sub-station, Nairobi.
Kenya Power (KPLC) is set to lay off employees in a planned turnaround strategy that also seeks to push more staff from offices to the field in a bid to align its resources with its needs.
The company is searching for a consultancy firm to develop a comprehensive transformation strategy and, once it is approved by the board, assist in its implementation.
Among the areas of focus by the consultant, Kenya Power said, would be a strategy on a gradual reduction in its workforce. 
The firm currently employs over 10,000 people.
“The transformation strategy will be focused on the value creation levers and will comprise of… phased reduction in workforce to ensure KPLC remains competitive and provides the right levels of service, and bring this into line with best benchmarks in Sub-Saharan Africa,” said Kenya Power in a document published on its website.
The electricity distributor recently experienced a reduction in employees to 10,479 in the financial year to June 2020, from a high of 11,295 in 2017.
It has also been undertaking a restructuring, which has seen it deploy “extra workforce drawn from office-based staff countywide to enhance our field presence”.
This is aimed at enabling a focus to customers as well as seal revenue leaks attributed to different factors, including illegal connections.
Increasing field staff is expected to help the firm in its new county-focused strategy, in which it has transformed counties into business units.
Kenya Power said the consultant will factor in the ongoing efforts to turn around the company in the transformation strategy.
Other areas that the strategy seeks to address include the government’s Last Mile Connectivity Project, which has to an extent been a drain to the firm.
The project, which has been pushing universal electricity access and hooks up homes to power as long as they are within a 600-metre radius from a transformer, has in the past been partly blamed for the company’s financial woes.
Kenya Power now hopes the consultancy can develop a strategy that will “resolve the financing of ongoing rollout and maintenance of last-mile electrification” including how to “immediately ring-fence and take off-balance-sheet if possible”.
It also said another role for the consultant will be to come up with a strategy for the renegotiation of power purchase agreements (PPAs).
The PPAs with power producers have been a key concern for the company, with many of them requiring payment even when the producers have not fed power to the electricity grid.
The structure of the agreements are such a concern, particularly their impact on the cost of power, that President Uhuru Kenyatta recently formed a task force to look into the contracts.
Kenya Power also hopes the transformation strategy will chart a way to reduce electricity losses to between 10 and 12 per cent.
System losses have been on the rise, standing at 23.5 per cent in the year to June 2020 from 18.7 per cent in June 2017.
Reprieve for Lake Basin Mall suspects after court suspends trial
Several accused persons in the Sh4.1 billion Lake Basin Development Authority (LBDA) Mall scandal got a reprieve after the High Court temporarily stopped their prosecution.
Justice James Wakiaga ruled that directors of Erdemann Properties Ltd which was contracted to construct the LBDA Mall in Kisumu had made a strong case against their prosecution to warrant the orders suspending the trial.
“I find that the applicants have established grounds for grant of the order to stop the trial based on the evidence they have submitted. The court will be failing in its constitutional mandate of protecting the rights of the applicants if it does not stop the prosecution,” ruled Wakiaga.
Although the orders were issued following an application by Erdemann Properties Ltd and its directors Zeyun Yang and Zhang Jing, it will also apply to their 17 co-accused whose trial will also be suspended.
The accused include Bobasi MP Innocent Momanyi, former Kisumu County Assembly Speaker Onyango Oloo and former LBDA Managing Director Peter Abok.
Others are LBDA Board of Directors George Odawa, Anthony Kiprono, David Oyosi, John Mango, John Onyango, Boniface Simba, William Omoding, Jimmy Nabwera, Alex Mukabwa, Mary Micheka, Kennedy Musebe, Michael Obora, Joash Odhiambo, Dennis Mulaa and Josiah Okumu.
Justice Wakiaga ruled that the company’s directors had proved that their prosecution is illegal given that their involvement in the LBDA Mall was a contractual agreement approved by the Attorney General that should not warrant criminal prosecution.
“The issue at the end of the day would be as to whether they are being prosecuted as a result of their demand for settlement of their dues and whether the government is using the prosecution to frustrate them from seeking the contractual amount,” Wakiaga said.
Zeyun and Zhang challenged the prosecution arguing that the charges were illegal and meant to intimidate and stop them from pursuing their balance owed.
Through lawyer Wilfred Lusi, they argued that they had delivered the complete Mall which had already been put to commercial use and were surprised when the prosecution recommended the charges when they demanded the payments.
“The charges against the directors were actuated by the desire to punish them for pursuing what they had worked for. They were legally awarded the tender after a successful bid, and nothing in the contract suggests they were engaged in corruption,” said Lusi.
According to Lusi, the issues which formed the basis of charging the company directors should have been referred to arbitration as was provided in the contract.
He added that the AG had also rendered a legal opinion on the validity of the contract which authorised the payment of the sums and prove that there was no fraud involved.
Justice Wakiaga agreed with the submissions, ruling that it will be unfair to continue with the trial when the directors had raised valid questions about their prosecution which should be determined first before the corruption case proceeds.
The directors alongside the other suspects were last year charged with several counts of conspiracy, with the prosecution’s case being that they conspired to defraud public funds by inflating the cost of constructing the mall from Sh2.4 billion to Sh4.1 billion. 
Eight out of 10 German businesses in Kenya have cited travel restrictions as the major negative effect of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Due to this, 70 per cent of them said depressed demand was the greatest risks to their economic development, according to a survey by the Delegation of German Industry and Commerce for Eastern Africa (AHK), a business lobby.
The Covid-19 pandemic has reduced economic activities owing to the containment measures that have been implemented by various governments to curb the spread of the disease.
Nonetheless, a good number of the businesses, 45 per cent, were satisfied with their current situation even as a third described their position as good.
The survey was conducted in the first weeks of April.
Maren Diale-Schellschmidt, a delegate of the lobby, said the numbers showed how the German businesses in Kenya are set for successful operation.
“German companies are here to stay and even grow their business further. What is especially encouraging is that we notice less mention of shortage of skilled workers as a hindering factor,” said Diale-Schellschmidt.
German Ambassador to Kenya Annett Guenther said the recent German investments in pharmaceutical, manufacturing, insurance and after-sale service centres are signs of increased interest in Kenya.
The interest, she added, was despite the strains brought on businesses by the coronavirus pandemic.
“The German government accompanies these efforts by German businesses with a co-operation that aims at improving the business environment in Kenya as well as the employability of Kenyan youths in TVET (technical and vocational education and training) centres of excellence,” Ms Guenther said.
Allianz, an insurer, is the latest German company to enter the Kenyan market after it completed the purchase of a 66 per cent stake in Jubilee General Insurance Kenya from the parent company Jubilee Holdings, which will retain a 34 per cent stake.
In the survey, 36 per cent of the firms cited cancellation of orders as a concern while 33 per cent listed problems in the supply chain.
Most of the companies do not expect the Kenyan economy to return to the pre-Covid-19 level until next year.
About 49 per cent said they expect the recovery to happen in 2022 and 36 per cent later.
Only nine per cent expect the economy to recover in 2021, and six per cent do not expect a full recovery at all.
This week, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) reviewed downwards Kenya’s economic outlook to 6.3 per cent from 7.6 per cent, citing the continuing effects of the pandemic.
“IMF staff now project the economy to expand by 6.3 per cent in 2021. The coronavirus shock has unfortunately also reversed some of the poverty reduction gains Kenya achieved in recent years and debt remains elevated,” said the leader of the IMF delegation to Kenya, Mary Goodman.
Safaricom paid Sh28.2 billion in commissions to M-Pesa agents last year, up from Sh23.8 billion that it paid in 2019.
The company last year recorded Sh82.5 billion in M-Pesa revenue, two per cent lower than the Sh84 billion made in 2019, with the firm attributing this drop to the waiver of fees on cash transfers and Lipa Na M-Pesa transactions of below Sh1,000.  
The telco said the first half of the financial year saw an increase in activity on the M-Pesa system as customers took advantage of the free transfers and Lipa na M-Pesa transactions. 
“Total M-Pesa transaction value grew 58 per cent year-on-year to Sh22.04 trillion, while the volume of transactions grew 29.8 per cent year to 11.68 billion,” said the firm in its latest financial results. 
Overall, person-to-person transfers rose by 36 per cent from Sh2.6 trillion at the end of December 2019 to Sh3.6 trillion last year, with deposits and withdrawals standing at Sh3.7 trillion and Sh2 trillion respectively.
Deputy President William Ruto interacting with professionals, political and business leaders from Bungoma, Kakamega, Busia and Vihiga counties during a consultation meeting at his Karen Office, Nairobi.
Deputy President William Ruto will retreat to the Coast for two days to champion his economic empowerment blueprint.
The DP is expected to meet local leaders and professionals alongside his economic strategists in a hotel in the afternoon before they go into plenary.
This comes after Dr Ruto held a similar meeting at his Karen residence, Nairobi, yesterday, where he hosted Western leaders and professionals led by Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali.
Ruto’s tour of the Coast comes a day after he skipped the official launch of the Lamu Port by President Uhuru Kenyatta.
He is scheduled to issue his address at 3pm before the meeting transitions to plenary discussions ahead of a joint communique to be issued tomorrow.
"The DP will be in the Coast region for two days to meet with the leaders and professionals on their economic empowerment agenda. He will be accompanied by economic experts led by David Ndii," said the DP's Director of Communication Emmanuel Talam.
He added," He will wind up on Saturday and deliver a joint communique with the region's leadership."
A section of Coast lawmakers recently deliberated on key projects they expect to present to the DP.
The leaders identified investing in the special economic zones, the blue economy, mining, housing projects as well as the thorny issue of job opportunities at Mombasa port.
In attendance were MPs Owen Baya (Kilifi North), Mohammed Ali (Nyali), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Khatib Mwashetani (Lungalunga), Faisel Baidel (Msambweni), Benjamin Tayari (Kinango), Senators Anwar Loitiptip (Lamu) and former Senator Hassan Omar, among others.
The agenda of such forums has revolved around politics and the economy, with the DP making a case for what he has termed a “bottom-up” approach.
Ruto's charm offensive has seen him meet leaders from Kajiado County, Mt Kenya and Western.
Yesterday, the DP met stakeholders from Bungoma, Busia and Kakamega counties at his Karen residence.
The meeting that brought together business professionals and politicians was convened by Washiali.
Others who attended the meeting were Daniel Wanyama (Webuye West MP), John Waluke (Sirisia) and former Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa.
“The reason I requested this meeting was because I wanted to explain myself to you and to persuade you that I have a plan worth implementing. That plan is not complete and I want it enriched by you people,” Ruto said.
Mr Washiali said the meeting discussed the economic interests of the Western region with a view to incorporate it into Ruto’s overall manifesto.
Top on the agenda, he said, was improving economic activities such as farming, Jua Kali and boda boda industries.
“Our farmers have been working hard over the years and yet they have nothing to show for it,” he said, adding that the respective counties would work through committees to identify their different priorities.
He added, "Our agenda will be the creation of wealth, jobs and opportunities as well as supporting enterprises and decriminalising the business environment. A deliberate government intervention that will put resources in small businesses will be the focal point of the bottom-up approach of our economic model."
Washiali said the DP gave them two weeks to come up with a paper to help him formulate a blueprint for the economic development of Western.
“Let us commit ourselves to an implementation plan so that we stop a government that is government for the sake of government,” Ruto told the leaders.
Last Friday, Ruto ally Eliud Owalo convened a meeting of Nyanza leaders to craft the economic strategy of the region.
They said their strategy will form the basis of their negotiations with other presidential hopefuls ahead of 2022.
Mr Owalo said anyone seeking the support of the region will have to enter into a pre-election economic pact with them.
Those who attended the meeting include former Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma, former Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno and former Rangwe MP Martin Ogindo.
KPA slashes rates by half to lure importers to Lamu Port
Ships and importers at the Lamu Port will now pay half of the cost they incur at the port of Mombasa.
In the new tariffs published by the Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) in a bid to lure traders to use Lamu port, stevedoring charges have also been reduced by 40 per cent. 
 Stevedoring is the loading or offloading of cargo from the ship.
In a notice signed by KPA acting Managing Director Salim Rashid that was released on Thursday, the loading and unloading of motor vehicles will cost 40 per cent less. 
Shore handling and wharfage services, which involve loading and discharging of domestic and transit cargo, will also attract a 40 per cent discount.
Goods dropped at Lamu by big ships before they are transported to other small ports will enjoy a 30 per cent free storage period.
"A 20-foot container will be charged Sh920 (USD10) from 31-60th day while 40ft container will attract Sh1,840 (USD20),” reads the tariff notice which indicated that transit cargo will enjoy a 30-day free period.
Thereafter, a 20ft container and 40ft container will attract Sh3,680 (USD40) and Sh7,360 (USD80) respectively.
Domestic cargo will enjoy 15 free storage days. Between the 16th and 18th day, USD30 will be charged for a 20ft container while a 40ft container will attract USD 60.
Containers staying for 27 to 35 days will attract USD40 and USD80 for 20ft and 40ft containers respectively. Thereafter, importers will pay ShSh4,140 (USD45) and Sh8,280 (USD90) for 20ft and 40ft containers respectively.
Imports and committed export empty containers will enjoy a 15-day free storage period and thereafter will attract Sh1,380 (USD15) and Sh2,070 (USD22.5) for 20ft and 40ft respectively.
Domestic motor vehicle will enjoy 15 days free storage period while transit and transhipment will enjoy 15 days and 30 day free storage period respectively.
KRA has installed both the Integrated Customs Management System (iCMS) and Simba Systems to ensure the 24-hour clearance.
KRA chairman Francis Muthaura said they will also give highly concessionary rate in a bid to attract business to the new facility.
He said paperless customs clearance will ensure the decision-making process is quick, transparent and simplified thereby reducing the time and cost of doing business.
Lamu Port has officially opened for business after President Uhuru Kenyatta Thursday unveiled its first berth promising to launch two other berths before the end of this year.
The transhipment port targets to link Kenya to South Sudan, Ethiopia and the middle belt of Africa.
“I am hopeful that before the end of the year in October we will invite regional leaders and other stakeholders for the full launch of the port after completion of the second berth in July and the third berth in October,” said the President.
“This project will open up opportunities in trade, tourism and create jobs not only in Lamu County but across the country,” he said.
The President challenged the Lamu County government to be aggressive in looking for investors to provide facilities such as houses that would complement the project. 
He promised to improve the road network in the area.
The President expressed optimism that the new port will inspire Turkana Oil investors on State commitment to improving infrastructure.
The country’s second commercial port after Mombasa received its first ship on Thursday, a milestone for the corridor, which has ambitions of being a key gateway for eastern and central Africa.
The corridor has a short term target of serving Ethiopia and South Sudan.
While there is optimism that the port will bring about the renewal of Lamu, there are concerns about the degree of connectivity between the county and the rest of the country.
The corridor itself is expected to have roads, rail and pipelines connecting the port to the hinterland, going as deep into the region as South Sudan and Addis Ababa.
“The Lapsset Corridor is primed to be the most competitive corridor in the region,” said Lapsset Authority in a statement, adding that currently there are options for businesses using Lamu Port to evacuate or bring cargo to the port.
It added that there are a number of critical roads that are currently being constructed, which will significantly improve access to the port.
These are expected to lure businesses importing and exporting to and from South Sudan and Ethiopia.
Currently, Lamu Port connects to Ethiopia through a 1,425km road – the Lamu-Garsen-Garissa-Kilimambogo-Isiolo-Moyale (Ethiopia border) route, of which 1,075km is paved, while the balance is under construction and expected to be complete in the course of this year.
The authority said this journey would reduce to 832km once a number of roads such as the Lamu-Garissa road are completed.
It is also the case for South Sudan, which though Lamu offers a much shorter route compared to using Port Sudan, over 2,700km from Juba, a poor road network might hamper access to Lamu Port. 
Parliament has backed Treasury’s plans to exempt Kenya Airways (KQ) from paying minimum tax in a move that offers a reprieve to the loss-making firm.
The tax became effective January this year and firms are required to pay it or normal corporate tax, whichever is higher and whether making profit or loss.
The National Assembly’s Committee on Delegated Legislation attributed KQ’s exemption to the devastating effect that Covid-19 has had on the global aviation industry.
This, they noted, hurt “the already ailing company that made a loss of Sh36.2 billion.
 The committee said “the minimum tax will render KQ’s operations unsustainable”. 
In March this year, National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani exempted the carrier from paying minimum tax, charged at one per cent minimum tax on revenues. 
The notice was taken to parliament and referred to the Committee on Delegated Legislation, which has recommended that KQ be exempt from paying the tax.
“The Committee recommends that the House approves the said statutory instrument (regulations) in accordance with section 13(2) of the Income Tax Act,” said the report by the committee.
The report is among the issues that were up for consideration during the parliament’s special sitting yesterday.
The committee said it had considered the key role played by the carrier in supporting economic sectors such as “marketing of Kenya as a tourism destination, trade facilitation job creation among others”.
 “It is prudent to grant the exemption from minimum tax to support the firm continue its operations until its returns to profitability,” said the committee chaired by William Kassait.
The Co-operative Bank of Kenya (Coop Bank) has posted a reduced profit of Sh3.46 billion in the first quarter of this year owing to the negative effects of the Covid-19 pandemic.
This represents a drop of 3.6 per cent compared to a profit after tax of Sh3.59 billion that the lender made in the first three months of 2020. 
The lender put aside a big chunk of its revenue as insurance against possible defaults.
“The group prudentially increased loan-loss provisions to Sh2.3 billion in the first quarter of 2021 in appreciation of the challenges that businesses and households continue to face due to the economic effects of the pandemic,” said Co-operative Bank Chief Executive Officer Gideon Muriuki.
This even as Moody’s, a global rating agency, affirmed the listed lender’s B2 rating citing “solid capital levels.”
In the three months of this year, the lender recorded increased revenues from its lending activities with its net interest income growing by over a third from Sh7.5 billion to Sh9.8 billion. 
The lender’s total revenue - interest and non-interest income - grew by 15 per cent to Sh14.4 billion from Sh12.5 billion, a sign that despite the ravages of the pandemic, a good number of the borrowers were able to service their loans.
Meta Electric General Manager Mr Brian Chege (R), showcases the electric charging car features for the T3 Van to Neo Kenya CEO Mr Douglas Kuria (L) during the launch of Kenya's first electric van held on April 29, 2021, at the Apex Business Park in Nairobi.
It is getting increasingly clear that the future of the automobile industry is in electric vehicles - at least before flying cars take over.
Countries such as the United Kingdom are already in the race to get rid of petrol and diesel-powered cars by 2030 to reduce pollution levels. 
Such moves by big economies leave Kenya helpless in the decision to go electric, yet the adoption of electric vehicles is dragging.
“It is a chicken and egg situation where for us to have infrastructure on charging electric cars, we have to have vehicles on the road; and for us to have vehicles on the road we need to have infrastructure around charging,” says Brian Chege, general manager of Meta Electric, a machinery dealership.
Meta Electric is one of the firms seeking to speed up adoption of electric vehicles. The firm in November last year imported two BYD T3 electric vans, one which has been leased to transport company Neo Kenya Mpya to be used for parcel delivery.
“The main purpose of the venture is to help businesses save money by reducing their operating costs through replacing their petrol or diesel vehicles with electric,” said Mr Chege. 
“We are looking at trucks, buses, public service vehicle buses, matatus and in the near future we hope to replace all of Nairobi vehicles with electric ones.”
Chege said there is a substantial interest from businesses to adopt electric vehicles, especially from firms dealing with fast-moving consumer goods.
“If you are able to give a solution that is 80 per cent cheaper, and runs on clean energy and also helps sustain the environment it is definitely a win-win for us,” he said.
The low maintenance and operating cost is the key selling point of electric automobiles, whether motorcycles or vehicles.
For example, Chege says for every 100 kilometres an electric vehicle will cost Sh300 while one running on petrol or diesel will dent the pocket by Sh1,400.
Electric motorcycles cut the cost by 90 per cent compared to the conventional ones, according to Ecobodaa Chief Executive Victor Kimosop.
It costs between Sh1,500 and Sh3,000 to service a petrol bike, which is done every two weeks, he said.
“We realised compared to petrol-powered bikes, we save 30 per cent daily on fuel and up to 90 per cent in three months for services,” said Mr Kimosop.
Ecobodaa was started in March 2020 and has been monitoring the reception of the bikes in preparation for commercial launch this year.
Kimosop said they target a business partnership with Kibera Bodaboda Association and an unnamed transport firm on food delivery.
The lithium ion battery fitted in the bike has a range of 60 to 75 kilometres on full charge while the battery in the T3 BYD electric van can run between 250 and 300 kilometres.
This short range is the downside that could make potential buyers get cold feet.
Once the battery is depleted it has to be recharged, which takes longer compared to the about five-minute stop at the petrol station.
The least time one can take to charge the T3 BYD van is one-and-a-half hours using direct current (DC) but eight hours using alternating current (AC). For a business, eight hours is a whole day, which may limit the profit one can make.
Chege said if one chooses to use DC, a converter is needed to adjust voltage level from AC current to DC. This costs about Sh100,000.
These dynamics raise the question on how the vehicles will be used not only for carrying consumer goods but also in large sectors such as matatus.
Kimosop said this has already been addressed through battery swapping, considering this is the most expensive part of the bike.
“The biker pays a fee and we exchange his battery for a fully-charged one. It takes five hours to charge,” he said.
“The battery is the most expensive part of the bike and we do not want to give the biker the headache of replacing it every three years as this costs Sh70,000.”
Neo Kenya Mpya CEO Douglas Kuria is optimistic that they will adopt electric buses, but he is not going “all money in” at the moment.
He says the reason behind using the BYD T3 van is not necessarily to maximise profits but to get knowledge on how electric vehicles work.
Neo Kenya Mpya manages over 170 matatus plying Nairobi, Machakos and Kiambu counties, and also has courier services.
“We are starting with this vehicle for courier services. We want to have electric buses too, so this is for us to have the knowledge and gain experience,” Mr Kuria said.
“We feel towards 2024 we need to have partnerships like this towards what we want to achieve.”
He, however, would not say when the company will go fully electric.
“Even the first world countries have not really fully replaced theirs (for electric), that is why we have a research and improvement arm, ‘Transport for Tomorrow’ purposed to drive our logistics to a different level.”
Kuria said the idea of converting their buses to electric is also not viable.
“When it comes to technology we do not want to have a barrier on what it (technology) can do, but we believe the best way around it is to have a new bus that is fully electric rather than a conversion,” he said.
Electric motoring has been on Kenyan roads for some years now, though in the form of hybrid cars.
A hybrid car is powered by both fuel and electricity. It is fitted with an electric motor and an internal combustion engine for diesel and petrol use.
These two work together interchangeably depending on how much power the car needs at the time.
But in an electric car, the vehicle is fully powered by electric motors.
The recent bilateral talks between President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Tanzanian Counterpart Suluhu Hassan that eased cross border maize trade has seen a drastic drop in the produce prices.
Farmers in North Rift region claimed yesterday that there is an influx of maize grains from the Eastern Africa Community region that had seen a reduction in prices from Sh2,800 per 90 kg bag last month to Sh2,300 currently.
The cereals producers who held a meeting in Eldoret now want the Government to consider increasing allocations to Agriculture ahead of the National budgetary estimates expected to be jointly released next month in within the EAC member states.
They want the sector to be allocated at least 10 per cent of the national budget saying the gesture, would create an equal level playing ground in agribusiness within EAC member countries.
Farmers representatives including Uasin Gishu large scale farmers Thomas Korgoren, Barnabas Kibos, Kimutai Kolum and Kenya Farmers Association Director Kipkorir Menjo said an improved allocation to agriculture would assist address high cost of inputs, ease taxation of farm implements and machinery hence lowering operational costs. 
They said high agricultural production costs in the country was disadvantaging farmers from achieving good returns compared to their counterparts in the region who sell produce at lower prices.
The farmers said producing a 90 kg bag of maize in Kenya costs on average Sh2,800 hence by selling at Sh2,300 in the market amounts to a loss and that most farmers had been discouraged from venturing into agri-business.
“We have realised challenges in the agriculture sector due to underfunding in the National budget estimates. The cost of fuel, fertiliser, transport have gone up while taxes are still high. We urge the Government to consider increasing the budget for agriculture and also zero-rate taxes for inputs,” said Menjo.
He added: “The Government should create a conducive environment to enable local farmers to be competitive and reap from cross border trade that was recently harmonised by President Uhuru and Suluhu.”
Kolum urged MPs in agricultural regions to press for additional allocations to the Agriculture ministry to ease high cost of inputs.
Comarco Tag boat towing barge carrying two Rubber Tyred Gantley cranes under Kenya Revenue Authority mobile scanner spotted at the Likoni Ferry Channel on Monday, 17 May 2021, while leaving the port of Mombasa to the port of Lamu. 
The towing tag will be cruising at a speed of 5 to 6 knots and is expected to arrive on Tuesday early afternoon. President Uhuru Kenyatta will commission the new Lamu Port on 20th May 2021.
Lamu Port starts operations  with the arrival of two vessels - Mv Cap Carmel and Mv Seago Bremerhavel.
Both ships will arrive from Mombasa and Dar-es-Salaam ports and dock at the new harbour today (Thursday).
President Uhuru Kenyatta will lead government officials and players in the maritime industry in commissioning the first berth as minimal operations start.
This signals the start of commercial activity at the Lamu Port, known for its deep and long berths that can accommodate big ships.
The port has opened up a whole new transport corridor.
The two vessels, owned and operated by Maersk Shipping and Logistics, the world’s largest shipping line, will be carrying avocados and an assortment of goods.
Tucked in the Manda Bay area, Lamu port is part of the ambitious Lamu South Sudan Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) corridor.
It is expected to transform regional economies through increased trade and regional inter-connectivity spanning South Sudan and landlocked Ethiopia.
Captain Godfrey Namadoa, Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) senior marine pilot who has been overseeing shipment of cargo-handling equipment from the Port of Mombasa to Lamu, is upbeat about the project.
“It is a port expected to grow transshipment cargo owing to its capacity to handle bigger vessels that can drop cargo there for redistribution by smaller ships to ports around the region such as Mombasa and Dar-es-Salaam,” he said.
“Already established global transshipment and maritime hubs such as  the Port of Salalah  in Oman and the  Port of Durban in South Africa have taken interest in Lamu.’’
The port’s berths are 400 metres long and are designed to handle 30,000 Deadweight Tonnage (DWT) for general cargo and 100,000 DWT of container cargo.
This compares to Mombasa Port whose berths are less than 350 metres long and 15 metres deep. Big ships cannot pass through the Mombasa shipping channel.
Once complete, the port will have 32 berths. 
It will be the largest in sub-Saharan Africa.
Already a number of firms in the maritime industry have indicated their readiness to move to Lamu.
Skyline Shipping and Logistics Company is one of the firms intending to set up base. 
Toyota Kenya has already built showrooms along the road to the new port.
Mombasa’s Premier Hospital is opening a branch in Lamu Island. 
The offices of the governor and county commissioner have been moved from Lamu Island to Mokowe.
Solomon Wao, the Skyline Shipping and Logistics managing director, said Lamu Port is the new investment hub and the company is eager to start operations there.
The Kenya Ships Agents Association (KSAA) said the port will complement Mombasa Port.
Vice chair Sylvester Kututa said the port will open up Northern Kenya.
Lamu Port aims to serve Kenya, Ethiopia and South Sudan.  
The number of super-rich individuals in Kenya is one of the fastest-growing in the world. 
These are the people who have created remarkable successful businesses or had lucrative careers and investments. 
It is predicted that the number of millionaires will grow by 80 per cent over the next 10 years, with 7,500 new millionaires set to be created. 
While many factors play a role in the making of a successful business person, learning some of the secrets of successful CEOs locally and internationally, will lift the trajectory of your career and speed your progress in business:
“Television is not real life. In real life, people actually have to leave the coffee shop and go to jobs.” - Bill Gates
What we watch on television or social media make entrepreneurship look like an easy and exciting journey.
Don’t get caught up in the narrative around self-employment. 
It’s going to take a lot of discipline to make your dreams a reality.
“Work like there is someone working 24 hours a day to take it all away from you.”- Mark Cuban
Billionaire Mark Cuban is the owner of Dallas Mavericks. 
Yet he still wakes up early and stays up late working. 
We are constantly told not to compare ourselves with others or to only be in competition with ourselves. 
In reality, it is easier said than done. Cuban offers this hack, because if your success could be taken by someone else, wouldn’t you double down to earn what’s yours and protect everything you’ve worked so hard for?
That is the mogul’s answer to what makes for a successful business.
This is not about selflessness but self-discovery.
 When Oprah asserted that she’d “only do shows that were in alignment with [her] truth,” she became truly successful.
 She references best-selling author Gary Zukav, who believes that you have to be aware of what you’re good at and what you’re therefore meant to do. 
That’s what you’re in service of.
“Don’t bother to have a plan at all. All that stuff about planning -- throw that out.”- Eric Schmidt, former CEO and current executive chairman of Google
“It seems to me that it’s all about opportunity and making your own luck. You study the most successful people, and they work hard and they take advantage of opportunities that come that they don’t know are going to happen to them. You cannot plan innovation, you cannot plan invention. All you can do is try very hard to be in the right place and be ready,” he says. 
“Focus. Do your work as if it is your last because word of mouth referrals are powerful.”- Emmanuel Jambo, photographer.
Try to constantly reinvent yourself.
 “Things change and as such, it is critical to constantly evolve, keep up with new trends, in my case with style and fashion. By focusing on your craft, you could be keeping revenue flowing, and be more productive with your time,” he says. 
“Draw a vision board and next to it a process map.”- Caroline Kinoti, fashion designer
In every decision you make on how you spend your time and resources, keep checking whether you are still on the right path.
If you do this, you will remain unstoppable. 
“Remember to keep it simple for example, I use sticky notes, write it in my own way and paste them on my dressing mirror. This way I see them every morning. When I accomplish one, I pull it out,” she says.
Create a realistic and achievable vision for your business, one that translates into actual growth.
“Whatever ideas give you sleepless nights is something you need to do.” TerryAnne Chebet, entrepreneur
My idea for Keyara Botanicals began as a dream but I would wake up in the middle of the night with ideas on how I wanted the product to look, what names I was considering for my products, or what solutions I wanted to create for skincare issues.
“Until today, everything I give my time to, whether consulting in communications, public relations or moderating a gig, these are things that I am passionate about, and I do with excellence, because I enjoy them,” she says.
Did you know that only half of new businesses survive for the first five years? That’s grim, right?
The statistics might be even worse - a Bloomberg research found out that of every 10 businesses, eight will fail within the first 18 months.
Many people who are attracted to the glamour of entrepreneurship tend to dismiss the reality of business failure. 
But while positive thinking is commendable, ignoring the possibility of failure won’t make it go away. On the contrary, overlooking and ignoring the harsh realities of business ownership is a sure-fire way to become just another statistic.
If you want your start-up to have a real shot at success, there are definitely some things you should be doing, and other things that you shouldn’t be doing. 
Take note of common reasons small businesses fail and do your best to ensure you don’t make the same mistakes.
Failure to deliver any real value
 All successful businesses have one thing in common – they prioritise providing real value to their customers/clients.
What makes your business unique, what sets it apart from its competitors? 
If you don’t have a real answer to this question, your business might be heading towards failure.
If your sole goal as an entrepreneur is to get rich quick, you will quickly find yourself at a dead end. Instead, think of how you can offer value to your target audience. 
For example, everyone can open a barbershop and hire a few skilled barbers. 
But the entrepreneur who thinks carefully about the kind of services that their clientele might require in that particular barbershop will have an edge over the competition.
Take a good look at the industry and determine what sets your business apart from its competition. 
How do you conduct business differently?
 What are others doing better than you? 
With this in mind, develop a unique, customised service package that presents a strong value proposition. 
Make sure that your brand messaging, identity, logo, colours and all visible aesthetics are in tandem with your unique value proposition. 
Investing in value might be quite costly at the outset, but it will pay off handsomely.
As an entrepreneur, you have a team of employees looking up to you as their leader.
As you deal with business challenges, you must learn how to manage the people around you, share your vision with them, and draw the best from them.
Many newcomers in entrepreneurship are overwhelmed by leadership expectations, which can lead to business failure.
If you have partners or a leadership team, disagreements about how to run the business might also spell doom.
 Arguing with each other publicly, or giving staff contradictory instructions is not likely to inspire trust and motivate your team.
 In addition, when you have challenges that require decisiveness, you will be caught up in arguments instead of resolving the issues before they cause significant damage.
The effects of bad leadership will trickle down all the levels of your organisation, including financial management, employee morale, and productivity. 
Once your business’ productivity starts to suffer, failure is sure to follow.
If you are not confident about your leadership skills, don’t panic.
 You can develop the skills needed through engaging the right mentors, enrolling for business leadership training, and conducting research on how successful business leaders have handled similar situations.
Unprofitable business model
You might have a good business idea, and all the best intentions and determination to succeed, but if you have an unprofitable business model, you won’t have a sustainable revenue stream.
An unprofitable business model might mean that you either break even or make losses
 There are many reasons that can make your business unprofitable including setting your prices too low, too much overhead costs, failure to optimise conversions, and poor customer retention.
When setting up your business model, think about building an effective sales funnel that maximises conversions and helps in customer retention.
Building a sales funnel requires you to consider your target audience, set up a system to analyse their behaviour, come up with a strategy to capture their attention, and create nurturing campaigns to maintain your connection.
Poor financial management
One of the leading causes of small business failure is poor financial management. In fact, 82 per cent of business failure is rooted in poor cash management, according to a US bank study.
Poor financial management can have you lock up a large sum of your business capital in fixed assets, which might lead to cash flow problems later on. For your business operations to run smoothly, you need to have enough money as working capital. 
Other than bad cash flow management, financial management woes come from poor budgeting and bookkeeping, insufficient tax preparation, and failing to seek professional advice when needed.
Understandably, most people going into business don’t have the accounting skills required to manage a business’ cash flow, taxes, expenses, and other financial issues. 
But to have a successful business, you have to know where every penny comes from, where it goes, and how it is helping your business achieve its goals.
This is why it is important to pay for professional accounting services.
If you are really strapped for cash, you can also manage your own finances through professional business accounting software – remember to log in all the financial transactions to generate accurate financial statements.
Job searching can be very time-consuming and exhausting. It is a journey that may take days or even months depending on the jobs available. 
The following steps will guide you on your job search journey.
A successful job search depends on your preparation. 
Therefore, pulling together everything needed for the search is important. The most successful applications are the ones that are tailored to specific roles.
It is, therefore, important to take time and identify what you are looking for and the nature of the prospective employer; media, manufacturing, NGO, parastatal?
Create impressive job search documents to support you in your journey. 
The CV should impress your potential employer and the applicant tracking system. Update your CV to cover your achievements and the type of roles you want. Identify a minimum of three referees to include in your CV.
Create a LinkedIn profile since most employers use this platform to know about a potential candidate.
 Write a cover letter that focuses on why you are the best fit for the role advertised.
 You should also state your achievements which will set you apart from the other applicants.
Identify job adverts that fit your role requirements. 
Then make sure you meet most of the requirements before applying.
 Align your CV with the requirements of the job advert. 
Don’t just sit around after a single application
. Keep on applying for jobs that fit your role requirement. 
You can always follow up with the organization if you don’t receive a response after two weeks.
As you search for jobs, it is important to network. Let your friends, colleagues, family and social media contacts know that you are open to new opportunities.
 Attend career fairs and talks since most prospective employers are always watching.
Hopefully, your previous steps have been successful and a job is around the corner.
 Prepare well for your interview.
 Ensure your clothing is in sync with the dress code of the organization.
Know your CV inside out and have some questions to ask the panelists during the interview.
Once you have received the job offer, do some research on what they offer for similar roles and be clear on what you will and will not accept.
The African Development Bank (AfDB) has blacklisted Kenyan firm Mactebac Contractors and its Director Joram Opala for three years over fraud in a Sh1 billion project.
In a statement issued yesterday, AfDB Group said Mactebec Contractors and its affiliates will be barred from participating in projects financed by the lender as well as other banks until the firm and its director undergo an integrity compliance programme.
“An investigation conducted by the Bank’s Office of Integrity and Anti-Corruption established that Mactebac Contractors Ltd and Opala engaged in fraudulent practices during a tender for the construction works for Malaba Water and Sanitation Project under the Kenya Towns Sustainable Water Supply and Sanitation Program in Kenya,” said AfDB in its statement.
Joram Opala Otieno at the Milimani Anti-corruption Court in August 2020.
In 2019, the Rift Valley Water Works Development Agency, the project's implementing agency sought a contractor to build 22.5 kilometres of piping, a new water treatment plant, rehabilitation of an existing plant, staff houses and storage tanks.
The project was meant to support the development of water supply infrastructure in 19 towns and sanitation infrastructure in 17 towns.
Last year, Opala, his brother and sister-in-law were charged alongside Migori Governor Okoth Obado and 12 others over graft in county contracts. 
At the expiry of the debarment, Mactebac Contractors will only be eligible to participate in bank group-financed projects by implementing an integrity compliance programme.
The firm and its affiliates will also be barred from participating in projects financed by the World Bank, Asian Development Bank and the American Development Bank.
In February this year, AfDB banned Global Interjapan Kenya Ltd for engaging in fraud in a five-year Sh6.3 billion project.
Acompany associated with politician Cyrus Jirongo has suffered a major setback after the Court of Appeal declined to freeze South Sudan government accounts over Sh5 billion dispute.
 After the High Court lifted the orders barring the Salva Kiir-led Government from transferring the contested money from National Commercial Bank of Africa (NCBA) and Stanbic Bank, Jirongo’s firm, Yu Sung Construction Limited appealed hoping to reinstate the orders.
However, Court of Appeal judges Daniel Musinga, Patrick Kiage and Gatembu Kairu dismissed the application noting that Yu Sung had not proved that if the court rules in its favour, South Sudan is not capable of paying.
“Will the intended appeal be rendered nugatory unless the orders sought are granted? We think not. The first respondent (South Sudan Attorney General) is the official representative of a sovereign State, which has an embassy in Kenya. It has not been alleged that if the appeal is successful the Republic of South Sudan shall be incapable of satisfying the decree that may be issued,” the judges ruled.
At the same time, the court observed that it is unclear whether the money held in the two banks in the name of The Bank of South Sudan is owned by the State or can be handed to a creditor in the event of a default. According to the judges, the bank is autonomous from the South Sudan government.
“The end result is that this application is dismissed and the interim orders that we granted on March 16, 2021, are hereby vacated. The costs of the application shall be in the appeal,” they continued.
The case stems from a decision given by the High Court.
 Justice Joseph Sergon had initially directed that the Salva Kiir-led Government should not transfer the contested money from NCBA and Stanbic.
Justice Sergon issued the orders four days after Justice Saidi Chitembwe lifted the orders which froze the two accounts.
According to Justice Sergon, the orders by Justice Chitembwe and Justice Jaden Thuranira appear to be conflicting with each other.
Justice Thuranira extended orders freezing South Sudan accounts to February 25, 2021.
“The matter be mentioned on February 25, 2021, before the presiding judge civil division for directions. The interim orders are hereby extended till February 25, 2021,” Justice Thuranira directed.
However, Justice Chitembwe in a separate ruling found that the orders in favour of Yu Sung had lapsed on February 10, 2021, adding that South Sudan was at liberty to operate its accounts.
“The second and third respondents (NCBA and Stanbic) having been served with the orders of February 10, 2021, should comply with those orders and allow the Government of South Sudan to operate its account freely,” Justice Chitembwe ruled on February 26.
He directed that the file be again placed before Justice Mbogholi Msagha who is the presiding judge and that the registry should forward any application filed by any party before March 4, 2021, to him to deal with it.
Aggrieved by Justice Chitembwe’s orders, Yu Sung filed another application on February 28, 2021, asking the court to suspend the same as it moved to the Court of Appeal.
Justice Sergon agreed to give them 14 days and suspended Justice Chitembwe’s orders.
In view of the facts that various judges have issued orders which appear to be in conflict, I think the court best placed to determine an application such as the one before this court is the Court of Appeal.
“An order for stay of execution of the order issued by Justice Chitembwe to last for 14 days pending filing a formal application seeking for a stay of execution pending appeal before Court of Appeal,” he ruled on March 2.
At the heart of the case is a deal to construct Dr John Garang memorial military academy and which Yusung is demanding for its pound of flesh from a consent signed before the East Africa Court of Justice(EACJ) while South Sudan claims that the firm never honored its end of the bargain and therefore should not be paid.
At the EACJ, Yusung had asked the court to force South Sudan pay USD 46 million (Sh 5.3 billion) which has accrued over time.
It also sought orders to force the country to export crude oil cargo which is equivalent to constructing the military academy and another one to construct Natinga Warehouses to a company in the United Emirates.
The proceeds, according to the company would be held in a joint account between South Sudan’s defense ministry and Appolo Advocates to ensure prompt payments.
On November 26, 2020, they allegedly got into a deal to have the money paid in five instalments. 
Yusung went to court, seeking to attach South Sudan accounts saying that it had learned Exim Bank had wired some USD 250 million (USD 27 billion).  
Yusung’s director, Omeke, in his affidavit filed before the court argues that the consent recorded before the regional court cannot be contested.
It flashed a disobedience flag to argue that South Sudan does not enjoy immunity.
“There is no immunity of any nature whatsoever that has been pleaded or established and none is available in relation to commercial transactions entered into by the state,” Omeke argues.
The President Salva Kiir Mayardit-led government in its reply to the case says that the case amounts to stealing from South Sudan’s citizens as the projects cited never barely started.
 It also asserts that the attached accounts are non-commercial and allowing Yusung to have the money would be equivalent to denying South Sudan citizens 3.12 per cent of their budget.
In its reply, the government claims that the orders by the court have grounded its operations, adding that it is aiding a money-laundering plot.
To support its case, it filed affidavits by a senior military officer Brigadier General Dau Duur, its first undersecretary, ministry of finance and planning Garang Majak Bol.
Making sound decisions is a skill that paralyses. 
And for an entrepreneur, delays can be the difference between clinching a deal or sinking. 
We talk to four business leaders who give some insights into the ‘dos and don’ts’ of the decision-making process.
Slow decision-making is costly. 
Key matters affecting companies have big implications on business but the time to consider them and give a firm direction is usually short. 
The consequences of procrastination requires a lot of time and resources to correct. 
In addition, many decisions have implications to third parties who need timely information for them to plan.
One of the best decisions we ever made was to invest and create our in-house building and construction subsidiary managed by qualified technical personnel. 
This ensures quality control and reduces on overall construction costs
I highly regret a decision to have our growth and expansion business model based on large debt financing, easily accessible from banks. 
This created a challenge in managing the debt. 
My advice? Keep company debt levels to a minimum and base expansion on internally generated revenues, organic growth and savings.
Some senior company decision-makers shy away from making them because they want to avoid taking responsibility for risky or negative outcomes. 
However, when you hold a position of responsibility in a company, one of the expectations of that office is timely decision making.
Before making an important decision, I do all the relevant consultation both internally and with external experts. 
This helps me understand the various scenarios or implications of the decision, both short term, medium-term and long term. 
Major decisions must be well informed to ensure you achieve the desired results and minimise potential risks or challenges.
Lee Karuri, executive chair of Resorts and Cities, a real estate development and hospitality company in Kenya.
The best decision I ever made was getting into entrepreneurship at a young age. 
By that one decision, I have created wealth, a decent livelihood, skills transfer and upgrading as well as a quality work experience for many.  
Procrastinating on decision-making is a vice. 
Everyone in authority needs to make quick decisions to shape the direction of the team. 
 Procrastination means putting everyone else in limbo and is viewed negatively by subordinates who are inconvenienced and irritated by lack of clarity.
 Procrastination kills respect, diminishes esteem and strips your team of the confidence they have in you. 
Before making a decision, get all the facts you need. 
Then improve your understanding of the facts by talking to knowledgeable people or researching. 
Also, observe the dynamics of the external environment.
 Then make the best decision you can, all facts considered.  
I don’t regret any decision I have made as it is from failure that we learn and grow from but I do wish I had decisively and intentionally ring-fenced personal time from the get-go.
 If I was to do it all over again, I wouldn’t work all hours as I now know that quality relationships with oneself, family and friends should be prioritised.
Joanne Mwangi Yelbert is the founder and CEO of PMS Group Africa, an integrated marketing communications company.
People shy away from making decisions because of fear of making the wrong one.  
It is however better to take a position and be wrong rather than sit it out and fail by default. We often regret decisions or actions we failed to take rather than those we take only to later realise we need to adjust for success.
It is however better to take a position and be wrong rather than sit it out and fail by default. 
We often regret decisions or actions we failed to take rather than those we take only to later realise we need to adjust for success.
One of the best business decisions I ever made was about staff welfare. 
With the current economic climate, many organisations have implemented hiring freezes. Kenyatta University is no different.
My department had less than 50 per cent of the necessary manpower and that made for a dangerously understaffed department.
 Therefore, I made the decision to document the state of the department and how we could not effectively continue to deliver services. 
The comprehensive report put into focus how understaffed we were.  As a result, the department was given additional staff members and things have definitely made a turnaround  
Delays in decision-making lead to a vacuum. 
Delays and procrastination in decision-making is an open invitation for others to usurp your authority due to the vacuum you have created. 
It is far better to be decisive on a matter than to delay due to indecision.
 After all, no one can know every possible outcome of the decisions we make. 
The best we can do is to make the best decision with the information available.
Dr Victor Mwongera is the non-executive chair of the Youth Enterprise Development Fund and head of Mechanical Engineering department at Kenyatta University.
One decision I regret is when I once delegated a lot of responsibility to an officer which resulted in poor decisions that required months to correct. 
Correcting meant performing a crisis management and staff encouragement process.
I have since learned that delegation is not always the magical solution to any problem.
Delegate roles with clear job descriptions, expected outcomes and deliverables.
I strongly believe in having a mentor, someone who has walked a similar journey with me. 
Therefore, even when I know I am doing the right thing, I still rely on my mentor when making a major decision to get an objective assessment of my thought process.
One of the best decisions I ever made was to transfer all our business platforms online over eight years ago, transforming the company into a digital marketing agency.
 When the pandemic hit, we were already in a good position for business continuity.
 We successfully took part in the first virtual tourism expo where we were recognised by 53 countries and awarded among the Top 10 virtual event companies in 2020.
Procrastinate and lose the deal.
Before making an important decision, I meditate, pause and trust my intuition.
If you are in authority, procrastinating in making a decision affects the company as well as the people around you.
You are in charge and must make some immediate and thorough decisions.
 At times, you cannot be diplomatic but downright straightforward because when opportunities come knocking and you fail to act fast, someone else may steal your tomorrow. 
With today’s cutthroat competition, you need to be on top of your game.
I cannot point out a specific decision I regret but I make room where my team and I agree to disagree. 
This is a stepping stone towards growth and change.  
Many are afraid to make decisions because they are worried about the outcome. 
There is also a lack of confidence and self-esteem. 
They ponder over the question, ‘What if?’ Such insecurities may require one to seek advice or therapy to overcome.
French President Emmanuel Macron (centre) walks with Sudan's Sovereign Council Chief General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan and Sudan's Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok before a joint news conference during the International Conference in support of Sudan at the Temporary Grand Palais in Paris.
Sudan is seeking relief on more than $50 billion (Sh5.35 trillion) in external debt, with multilateral and bilateral creditors meeting in Paris in an effort to push the process forward.
Debt relief is a crucial step for Sudan, which sits in a volatile region between the Horn of Africa and North Africa, in its attempts to recover from a deep economic crisis and reenter the global economy after decades of isolation.
Sudan’s debt totals at least Sh5.35 trillion as of the end of 2019, according to the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
The country is still working with its creditors to reconcile its debt up to the end of last year, and officials say the final total could be as high as $60 billion (Sh6.42 trillion).
According to the IMF, $5.6 billion (Sh600 billion) is owed to multilateral organisations including itself, the World Bank, and the African Development Bank (AfDB).
An estimated $19 billion (Sh2.03 trillion) is owed to Paris Club creditors, of whom France, Austria, and the US are the largest.
A similar amount is owed to non-Paris Club countries, including Kuwait, Sudan’s largest creditor at $9.8 billion (Sh1.04 trillion), Saudi Arabia and China.
Finally, Sudan holds what an IMF official says is an unusually high amount of debt to commercial lenders, estimated at almost $6 billion (Sh642 billion).
As Sudan was cut off from the international system for decades, about 85 per cent of its debt is arrears - unpaid interest and penalties.
After Sudan’s removal from the US state sponsors of terrorism list in late last year, it became eligible for the Highly Indebted Poor Countries programme, which provides debt relief for low-income nations.
ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru during Telkom Kenya and Loon Technology launch
Under the programme, all Sudan’s creditors will agree to restructure and forgive the debt.
The government will waive licence fees for firms that set up community networks in underserved areas of the country to accelerate Internet connectivity. 
This is according to a draft policy by the Communications Authority of Kenya (CA), that seeks to create a new licence category for community networks and develop financial and administrative requirements proportional to their scope and scale.
“In reaching the unconnected segments of the population, many in remote or sparsely populated, low-income areas, there is recognition by the authority that a variety of complementary strategies are needed to meet the needs for affordable communications infrastructure,” says the CA. 
According to the draft, the rate of broadband connectivity is slowing down across the country, despite several firms deploying thousands of fibre optic cables in the past decade.
“In order to address rapidly rising demand, the authority is considering methods beyond the traditional model of commercial operator licensing and exclusive spectrum assignments,” the policy says. 
According to the CA, 48 per cent of Kenyans, especially those living in rural areas, remain unconnected to mobile networks and an even larger number have no access to fixed broadband.
As at last year, there were only four community networks in Kenya running pilot projects.
These were TunapandaNET in Cobra, Nairobi, Lanet Umoja in Nakuru, Dunia Moja in Kilifi and Aheri in Nyanza, all sponsored by non-governmental organisations.
The networks utilise WiFi technology, leading to challenges of network congestion and signal interference.
High spectrum fees and regulatory demands on annual reporting further make it difficult for community networks without steady revenue streams.
A 15-year licence, for example, will cost a Tier-3 operator Sh200,000 initial operating fee, Sh5,000 licence application fee and annual operating fee of 0.4 per cent of annual gross turnover or Sh160,000, whichever is higher. 
Operators are also required to produce an annual compliance report and meet several other conditions, both to qualify and maintain the licence.
Other barriers include the high cost of equipment linked to high import duty and custom fees on telecommunications equipment and user devices. 
Under the new proposal, operators deploying within a sub-county will only pay Sh1,000 in licence application fees, Sh5,000 in initial operating licence fees and Sh5,000 in annual operating fees for a 10-year licence. 
At the same time, fibre-optic network operators will be required to publish a standard price list that is transparent and non-discriminative for wholesale rates that will be charged to community network providers. 
CA also hopes the policy will help create impetus for prospective service providers to make commercial use of television white spaces, the spectrum freed up by the country’s migration from analogue to digital broadcasting. 
The authority says it will set up a regulatory sandbox where spectrum fees will be waived for service providers that will be invited to test technologies that can use TV white spaces. 
The ongoing construction of Lanet Airport at 81 Tank Battalion Barracks-Lanet in Nakuru County.
Lanet Airport will be completed by August next year, Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) has said.
In a statement, the authority said the first phase of the Sh3 billion project was on course amid the Covid-19 pandemic, which has affected many development projects. 
“The groundbreaking for the project was done in December 2020, the site handed over to the contractor in January 2021 and the project commenced on February 23. The contract period is 18 months and the completion date set on August 22, 2021,” said KAA. 
The project entails the upgrade of a 1.7-kilometre-long military runway at 81 Tank Battalion Barracks, Lanet, which is currently of gravel finish to bitumen standards. 
The airbase will be a dual military-civilian facility.
The runway strip will be 150 metres wide with four taxiways and a military apron that will be able to accommodate larger and heavier commercial aircrafts such as Beechcraft 1900. 
During an inspection tour on Tuesday by Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui, accompanied by Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri, KAA revealed that the Sh400 million first phase of the project was 5 per cent complete. 
“The government has allocated Sh406,761,591 for the first phase. An advance payment of Sh39,418,827 has been made. The project is currently at 5.5 per cent. The contractor has mobilized the required resources including human capital,” KAA said in a statement. 
Government spokesman Cyrus Oguna led the County Development Implementation Coordination Committee (CDICC) in an inspection tour of the project. 
Due to limited civilian access to the project site within the military facility, speculation has been rife that the project was yet to take off. 
“There have been questions over the progress of this project and we assure the residents that everything is on track. The contractor has devised ways to continue undertaking it safely in regards to Covid-19,” said Kinyanjui. 
The governor noted that the project has a high potential for taxpayers as they will recoup funds invested in the project through the tourism and horticultural sub-sectors which thrive in the county. 
“This dream was conceived over 20 years ago and for the first time, we have seen a commitment by the government in financial allocation and implementation. The investment shall not be in vain considering the potential of our county and the Rift region,” said Kinyanjui. 
Residents around the barracks are set to benefit from the project which is set to have tarmac roads leading to the airport for easier access.
They each contributed Sh500 every week from the menial jobs they did
After completing their studies at the university, seven graduates from Ebubole village in Mumias East Central Sub County, Kakamega County found themselves in a tight corner.
Tired of being seen as a burden by their family, they combined forces and formed Terry Agri-centre, a self-help group and started table banking in 2018.
Others are Josephine Wanzala, Isaac Lumbasi and Wycliffe Lubale.
The seven friends include James Ndege,  a graduate from Kenyatta University in Dryland Agriculture and Enterprise Development, Nicholas Ambembe with a degree in General Agriculture from Egerton University, Rose Okello with a degree in Statistics and Programming and Penninah Ocholla with a degree in Finance. 
To start off, they each contributed Sh500 every week from the menial jobs they did and after 10 months, they had saved a total of Sh140, 000.
Luckily, along the way Rose, Nicholas and Penninah secured well-paying jobs and used their payslips to secure a loan of Sh250, 000 each totalling to Sh750, 000.
“We used the money to buy two pieces of land in Kakamega Central and Mumias East at a cost of Sh500, 000 and Sh350, 000 respectively. The plots were half an acre each. After securing the plots, we decided to try a hand in poultry farming as we shared a common passion in the same,” says Ndege.
Although they were from different areas, Ndege says they made sure that they had a get-together meeting every weekend to strategise.
They agreed to start a joint poultry project in January 2019.
Ndege, who now manages the project given his rich background in agriculture, says they put up a makeshift structure in Ebubole village in Mumias East where they had bought one of the plots and started with 250-improved Kienyeji chicken that was two weeks old.
“We bought the chicks from Engokho poultry farm in Bungoma at a cost of Sh150 per chick totalling to Sh37, 500. After three months, we sold them to leading hotels in Kakamega and Mumias towns at a cost of Sh450 each and got Sh112, 500,” explains Ndege.
According to Ndege, they used the money to buy 1,000-day-old chicks at Sh100 each and the balance used to buy feeds. The birds were all layers.
They also took part of their savings and bought additional 500-day-old chicks and this one they kept specifically for meat. They sold most of the birds for events like weddings, funerals and birthday parties, though this attracted low-profit margins.
First tough months
 To boost the survival of the birds, they follow a strict vaccination schedule.
“On day one, we gave the chicks Marex vaccine and at seven days old, we administered gumboro vaccine and on day 14 we gave them the Newcastle vaccine. At three weeks we repeated Gumboro and then Newcastle vaccine at week four,” says Ndege.
“The first five months is not a walk in the park. You spend from your pocket. Our savings were almost drying up but when they started hatching eggs, we got relief as we used part of the money to buy feeds,”.
For the first seven days, they fed the chicks on starter mash and changed to chick mash then to growers mash when they were two months. They changed to layers mash when they started seeing the first eggs in September 2019.
 “We would collect between 700 and 820 eggs daily totalling about 19,200 eggs a month. We would hatch three-quarters of the eggs and the balance we sold it to the locals at Sh25 each since they were fertilised eggs,” says Ndege.
Terry Agri Centre now has almost 4,000 birds in different stages.
When Covid-19 pandemic struck, hotels were closed and the government applied breaks on events like weddings and birthday parties as well as restricting the number of people who should attend funerals.
According to Isaac Lumbasi, to remain afloat, they went back to the drawing board and started using social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp and Instagram to market their products.
Lumbasi says they also had to change tactic and ventured big time into the chick hatching business.
“It’s expensive to rear chicken until maturity and yet there is no market. During the pandemic, we discovered that chick hatching was a lucrative business. We have three incubators with a hatching capacity of 528 eggs meaning every month, we hatch more than 1,500 chicks,” said Lumbasi.
On value addition, Lumbasi says they also started slaughtering the birds and sell it to the locals in pieces.
 Wycliffe Lubale says they also grow sukuma wiki, Amaranth, Nightshade and pumpkins, which they feed on the birds and sell it to the locals.
The team has stationed their headquarters in Kakamega and also offer extension services to farmers in Bungoma, Kakamega, Vihiga and Busia counties.
So far, the biggest challenge they face is the high cost of feeds and electricity especially for the hatching of chicks.
The government is keen on concluding negotiations for the free trade agreement with the United States, President Uhuru Kenyatta said on Tuesday.
Talks on free trade agreements began in 2018 following a meeting between President Uhuru and former US President Donald Trump. 
However, it was not until July 8 last year that both countries announced the formal launch of talks, with July 31 this year set as the deadline for putting pen to paper on the deal. 
In April this year, US Trade Representative Amb Katherine Tai said further negotiations have to align to President Joe Biden’s Build Back Better Agenda, which could further delay the agreement.     
While underscoring the importance of the private sector in Kenya's economic growth and job creation, President Uhuru Kenyatta said Kenya is keen on concluding negotiations for the free trade agreement with the US.
He said more partnerships between Kenyan and American Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) will help unlock the huge trade potential that exists between the two nations.
The President invited American SMEs to invest more in the country by entering into mutually beneficial arrangements with their Kenyan counterparts, adding that the enterprises are the backbone of Kenya's vibrant economy.
“This is where the real opportunity lies. This is not to say that we are telling the big boys not to come in, they are already here. The big corporates are already here.”
“But they don’t have the capacity to propel inclusive growth as the small and medium enterprises that have a much greater capacity of affecting lives and changing the livelihoods at the grassroots level,” he said.
He spoke during a virtual US Chamber of Commerce Global Leaders’ Forum on Economic Recovery.
He invited American enterprises to set shop in Kenya saying the country provides a ready market for US products, and has an expanding economy supported by an innovative and highly skilled young labour force that is ready to absorb American investments and technology.
“I believe this is a mutually beneficial relationship that offers investment opportunities with great returns for American companies while at the same time offering job opportunities to Kenyans,” the President said.
On the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), he said the multilateral trade arrangement had consolidated Africa's market of over one billion people into one basket making the continent an attractive investment destination for American businesses.
Conceptualised in 2012, AfCFTA officially kicked off last January 1, with the 55 member states expected to begin trading under the agreement.   
According to a new World Bank study, AfCFTA could also help lift 4.4 million Kenyans out of poverty, with the country emerging among the top beneficiaries of the ambitious trade pact.
“Under the AfCFTA scenario, real income would increase by seven per cent by 2035, relative to the baseline for the Africa region - a sizable gain,” senior World Bank economists Caroline Freund and Albert Zeufack said in the study. 
In monetary terms, the gains represent around $445 billion (Sh45 trillion) in Africa by 2035, while the rest of the world is expected to record an increase of $76 billion (Sh7.6 trillion) in real income. 
“The gains are unevenly distributed across the Africa region,” explains the study.
“At the very high end are Côte d’Ivoire with gains of 13 per cent and Zimbabwe with gains of 12 per cent, followed by Kenya, Namibia, Democratic Republic of Congo and Tanzania at more than 10 per cent.”  
Imagine you are a consultant in the organisational behaviour space and you have been hired by a corporate to fix what has been described to you as a “broken HR system”. 
The firm has been struggling with a high staff turnover with many employees barely lasting two years.
An audit of the departing employees shows that they were making lateral moves. 
Internal retention panels and taskforces had come up with what was believed to be innovative incentives to retain employees but even with these, the needle barely moved.
The CEO and HR honcho concluded that maybe the involvement of an impartial, detached outsider would not only help diagnose but also fix the malaise.
Pre-engagement review of documents from the client suggests that everyone is taking this problem seriously. 
Management has initiated talent retention bonuses for star performers. There is an elaborate coaching and career guidance programme in place. 
The organisation has a powerful mission to solve societal problems, something that should appeal to young, ambitious employees.
 So why are employees not staying?
This is so puzzling that you decide to consult an old colleague, a veteran who also teaches at a local university.
You send a brief of your understanding of the problem to help her appreciate the challenge.
After a while, she calls back with what turns out to be a stunning response. 
I am surprised you think that the HR system at that place is broken. 
 There is no such thing as dysfunction in any organisation, each is aligned to achieve the results it currently gets.
“This is the myth that drives many change initiatives to the ground; that an organisation needs change because it is broken. No way. Any social system is the way it is because some people in the system want it that way, irrespective of what they may say. What you see as broken works for someone or some people in the system…your job is not to fix a broken system but to identify who the system is working for and who it is not,” she said. 
Kakuzi PLC has pledged to invest more than Sh400 million to boost avocado production. 
Speaking during the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) listed firms 93rd Annual General Meeting held virtually, Kakuzi PLC Chairman Nicholas Ng'ang'a said the firm will this year invest more than Sh400 million in capital expenditures (CAPEX) while focusing on upscaling its smallholder operations value to complement its production capacities and boost the global positioning of Kenyan avocados.
"It's critical that the markets only receive good quality fruits from Kenya, and to achieve this, building knowledge of the market requirements amongst farmers is very important," Mr Ng'anga said.
He added that the firm is also exploring value addition opportunities in a number of these crops and hope that further exciting opportunities to diversify the income stream.
Strategically the company with a 2,500 strong workforce, he said, continues to invest in developing its core crops of avocado, macadamia, forestry and cattle and experimenting with the new blueberry venture.
"The markets for Kakuzi's avocados remained solid, despite the almost complete closure of the food retail sector across our main markets. We expect that there will be some recovery in 2021, but this is not guaranteed. To mitigate this, we continue to trade with our traditional buyers as well as some key new players across 14 different countries," Ng'ang'a said.
At the AGM, the firm's shareholders unanimously voted for Sh18 dividends per share, representing a 28.5 per cent growth from the Sh14 dividends paid out the previous year.
"The global market is responding positively to Kenyan avocados due to their high potential to provide good quality fruits but, we must work tirelessly to secure this market," Ng'ang'a said.
The company he added has secured lucrative markets for Kenyan agriproducts such as avocados and macadamia and will continue adopting a shared prosperity approach by integrating smallholders.
The company has also thrived despite the ravaging effects of the pandemic on the economy.
"I am pleased to report that the pandemic did not force us to lay off any staff member. Infact our employee numbers increased, and we managed to honour our Collective Bargaining Agreement commitment with the Kenya Plantations and Agricultural Union to further increase wages," he said.
Three UK-based supermarket chains, last year suspended the purchase of avocados from the Murang’a agribusiness firm following human rights abuse claims by 85 individuals.
Kakuzi PLC is now focusing on agricultural production expansion and diversification projects for its macadamia, blueberry, livestock and commercial forestry business lines.
Safaricom CEO, PeterNdegwa (centre), with, Cabinet Secretary ICT Joe Mucheru and Acting Director General Mercy Wanjau during the launch of the 5G network at the Micheal Joseph Centre.
The capital markets regulator has approved Safaricom’s mobile investment product dubbed Mali.
In its latest report on the progress of various investment solutions in its regulatory framework, the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) said the collective investment scheme (CIS) developed in partnership with fund manager Genghis Capital could pose significant regulatory challenges.
“The firm initially requested to be admitted in the sandbox for three months but subsequently requested for an extension of this period to ensure wider reach of customers,” explained the CMA in its report in part.
“The firm completed running the tests and exited the sandbox and was authorised to roll out the product on a commercial scale.”
Other firms admitted into the regulatory sandbox include Pezesha Africa, Innova Ltd, the Central Depository and Settlement Corporation, Pyypl Group, Belrium Kenya Ltd and Four Front Management.
The regulatory sandbox allows live testing of innovations under a less onerous regulatory regime and is expected to attract fintech companies and capital markets licensees such as stockbrokers, fund managers, investment advisors and CIS to test the application of technology on financial services.
 Safaricom Chief Executive Peter Ndegwa last week said the firm was awaiting for approval from the regulators before commercially launching the mobile investment product.
CMA further raised concern that the massive numbers of investors involved could demand a review of the rules of conducting annual general meetings for the unitholders.
CMA further says a large number of test subjects (50,000 investors) needed to successfully test the product was beyond the sandbox risk appetite.
The approval means it now awaits a decision from other regulators such as the Central Bank of Kenya before it can roll out to market.
CMA also raised concern that some of the new investment products set for introduction in Kenya’s securities exchange are too complex for the current regulatory environment.
According to CMA, several investment products including fintech and mobile investment products in various stages of testing require oversight from multiple regulatory agencies, due to their scale in the financial sector.
“Some of the applications we have received for admission into the Regulatory Sandbox are cross-cutting and have aspects where different regulators need to be engaged,” said CMA in its report.
CMA launched the regulatory sandbox in March 2019 and invited firms to develop and test new solutions. 
Since then, 24 applications have been received and seven admitted to the sandbox.
Firms experimenting with blockchain technology and mobile investment products lead the pack.
Dock Workers Union General Secretary Simon Sang (right) and executive board member Julius Nyandiko.
Candidates for the Dock Workers Union (DWU) general secretary post yesterday took a swipe at each other as the campaigns for the May 20 elections hit the homestretch.
As some candidates called for the postponement of the polls, General Secretary Simon Sang cancelled an earlier arrangement to have the County Labour Officer run the polls.
In a letter dated May 8, Sang said the last DWU National Executive Committee re-defined the role of the returning officer, saying the labour officer can oversee the election but not run it.
He said the polls would now be conducted by an election board as directed by the registrar of trade unions.
“The election board under the chairmanship of Martin Oindo, you need to work with them as a team. His team will do logistical matters in full, which you are not privy to such as developing voting registers, identifying polling stations, and conducting an election,” said Sang.
He added that election clerks would be sourced from Kenya Ports Authority (KPA).
This has drawn both criticism and support from the other candidates.
Yesterday, Omar Masumbuko, a candidate for the GS post, criticised Sang for “trying to change the rules in the middle of the game”.
“The team lead by Sang has failed workers. It is during his reign that workers lost overtime allowances and he also failed to push for workers’ pay raise,” said Masumbuko.
Since last year, KPA has been restricting the overtime allowance to 30 per cent of monthly salaries, hence reducing the port workers’ take-home package.
Sang, however, said the issue of overtime would be addressed after the Collective Bargain Agreement (CBA) is signed on May 16 by the union.
The CBA gives the over 4,400 unionisable staff a 10 per cent pay rise to be backdated to 16 months.
The Salary and Remuneration Commission has, however, raised an objection saying KPA’s cash flow cannot sustain the pay rise. 
Another aspirant, Harry Arigi, said elections should be postponed because they coincide with the May 20 official launch of the Lamu Port.
He said some of the union members will be busy.
“Several union members who are eligible to vote will be engaged in Lamu. We need all members to participate in this important exercise,” said Arigi. 
Other aspirants are former head of container operations at the port Edward Opiyo and Mikindani MCA, who is also former chief shop steward Renson Thoya, Abubakar Mohamed, Said Chande, Alphaeus Aluoch, Jorum Kiilu, Ezra Okong’o and Fatuma Mbule.
Majengo Warrah, Siyat Abdullahi, Moses Abebe, Kanga Maganga, Athman Athman, Mohamed Mabanda, Mohamed Ibrahim and Adenan Ondieki are also eyeing the seat.
Meanwhile, all the KPA employees interested in the DWU seats have taken leave to participate in the election, and in case they are defeated they will still have their jobs.
Masumbuko, a Shop Steward Council Secretary who works in logistics, confirmed that he had taken leave to campaign.
 “Sang has failed to protect the workers from exploitation. He has been unable to address the issue of workers’ overtime payment,” Masumbuko said.
But Sang dismissed Masumbuko’s claims, saying he had fought many battles to improve the welfare of KPA workers. He said since he took over the DWU leadership the workers have been the best-paid employees in the country.
The union boss insisted that he was fighting to have the CBA registered and fully implemented, adding, “I want to concentrate and not engage in petty claims from my opponents”. 
“I have not been campaigning because I want to make sure the CBA award of 10 per cent salary increment for my members is paid,” said Sang.  
James Nyabando, a banana retailer at Moitunya in Nyamira County checks out one of the bunches for sale in his make-shift shed. Banana farmers from Kenya are set for good business from export of the product to South Korea.
Seated on a wooden bench near his makeshift shed at the roadside along the Kisii-Nyamira-Kericho Highway, James Nyabando patiently waits for someone to buy his bunches of green bananas.
Since morning, he has sold only one bunch.
His prices range from Sh700 for the biggest bunch weighing around 60kg to around Sh300 for the medium-sized one weighing around 30kg.
Most of the customers who buy his cooking type bananas are motorists on transit from or to Kisii, Nyamira or Kericho towns.
He is not a farmer himself but he buys from growers and resells at a profit margin.
“This is not a bad business venture because I make a good margin. But today business is slow,” Nyabando tells The Standard.
One of his main suppliers of the banana is Lukas Moganda from Moitunya Village, about 50 metres from Nyabando’s roadside shed.
Moganda has a total of over 800 stems of green bananas in his half-acre farmland.
On average, he can harvest up to 50 bunches every week, which he sells to local retailers like Nyabando and some brokers who transport produce to Nairobi where there is a richer market.
But his biggest challenge is the low prices the produce fetches due to low market and exploitation from brokers.
Farm prices for the biggest bunch that can weigh around 70kg range from Sh600 to Sh700 while for the small type weighing around 30kg can go for as little as Sh250.
On his farm, Moganda grows the Ng’ombe variety of bananas, besides the Gros Michel type which are the commonest cultivars of green bananas in the region.
The prices are almost similar across Nyamira and Kisii Counties where banana farmers mostly sell their produce at near throw-away prices
For example, Moganda’s story is not any different from that of Evans Onsinyo, a farmer from Suneka Bogiakumu whose two-acre banana plantain has not given him good cash returns due to the declining market.
But even with the underlying challenges the two farmers and many others could be facing, there is a glimmer of hope for them in the international market after the Korean Republic opened up a fresh market for Kenya’s green bananas and broccoli.
According to the letter from the Ministry of Industrialisation, Trade and Enterprise Development to the Council of Governors, counties have been challenged to take up the market opportunity for their farmers who grow the products.
The Ministry, in its communication to the governors, banana export volumes were still dismal and there was a need for enhanced efforts to have all counties interested in the business to do a quick follow-up on certification.
“For acquisition of phytosanitary conformity certifIcates (certification requirement on any farm produce meant for the export market), you are advised to refer any interested counties to the Managing Director of the Kenya Plants Health Inspectorate Services (Kephis),” the letter read in part.
Such opening is a great blessing for local farmers like Moganda who otherwise were on a verge of losing hope on the crop due to lack of marketability.
David Orori, a chief officer for trade at Nyamira County says the opportunity has reignited a fresh need to increase the production of bananas and even ventures into broccoli farming.
“We have no justification why our farmers should not grab the opportunity. However, we now have to draw a major focus on sensitising them on the production of quality produces that can pass the international certification standard,” Orori says.
The country has an estimated annual production of 1.1 million metric tonnes of green bananas where an estimated 390,000 small-scale farmers play a larger part in the production, according to the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO) 2014 report titled Food Loss Assessments.
Of the total production of bananas in the country, 60 per cent of it all is the green bananas that are mainly for cooking while the 40 per cent is the dessert variety according to Techno Serve(TNS).
While Meru County is taking lead in the production of bananas at around 40 per cent, followed by Kirinyaga and Tharaka Nithi counties at 21 and 19 per cent respectively.
A FAO report shows that Kisii, Nyamira, Bungoma and Kakamega counties are the largest producers of green bananas which are now being sought after in the newly opened market in South Korea.
The three leaders in banana production mainly venture into dessert bananas.
With the fresh prospects, Kenya joins the league of top African exporters of bananas behind Cote d’Ivoire and Cameroon.
FAO’s Banana Market Review report indicated that in 2019 alone, Cote d’Ivoire exported a total of 411,000 tonnes of bananas with Cameroon also selling a total of 167,000 tonnes outside its borders.
Kenya on its part exported a total of 100 tonnes for two years: 2016 and 2017.
Nyamira Governor Amos Nyaribo while welcoming the news of the prospective banana market said the Lake Region, Western and South Rift counties are going to be the greatest beneficiaries.
This is after the completion of a Sh7 billion investment of an international agricultural industrial park in the county.
How Kenyans borrowed to survive Covid-19 pandemic
The Covid-19 pandemic pushed Kenyans to borrow for survival as the disease destabilised the country’s economy, with thousands losing their livelihoods.
An analysis by Financial Standard on data on the demand for credit from 2019 to March this year shows loans to individuals and households went up by 14 per cent.
This compares to the pre-Covid-19 era when many Kenyans were able to comfortably meet their daily needs.
The data is contained in the Central Bank of Kenya Credit Officer Survey report, which shows in March 2019, the demand for personal and household loans stood at 39 per cent, the same as in 2018.
This figure, however, shot up to 43 per cent in December 2019 and 53 per cent in March last year, a 14 per cent increase.
The figures are based on responses from senior credit officers in registered commercial banks.
In the March 2020 report, 38 lenders and one mortgage finance company participated in the survey.
In the report, loans to the trade sector came in second after individual and household loans at 46 per cent followed by manufacturing at 31 per cent. 
The survey covered 11 sectors of the economy.
This saw gross loans rise by 2.62 per cent from Sh2.774 billion in December 2019 to Sh2.847 billion in March 2020.
“The growth in gross loans was mainly due to increased advances in the manufacturing, trade, personal/household and tourism, restaurant and hotel sectors,” reads the Credit Officer Survey Report for March 2020.
“The increased demand in the two sectors is attributed to increased demand for consumer goods and services.”
Consumer goods are products or utilities considered basic for a particular household. 
They may include clothes, electronics and even food.
The rise in the percentage of credit advanced to individuals and households, explained Samuel Nyandemo, a lecturer of Economics at The University of Nairobi, was in reaction to the impact of Covid-19 on the economy.
“When Covid-19 came, many peoples’ incomes were seen to be melting,” he said.
Dr Nyandiemo said since businesses were not bringing in profit as expected, many people were forced to take loans to survive.
“The incomes were dwindling so they had to cushion themselves from the devastating effects of Covid-19, leading to them taking loans,” he said.
This percentage of credit advanced to households and individuals, however, dropped to 31 per cent, according to the June 2020 Credit Officer Survey report, before shooting up again in September to 45 per cent.
And while the figure remained at 45 per cent of total loans as of March this year, it was still higher compared to the same period in 2019 before Covid-19 struck.
After it became apparent that the pandemic was not a passing cloud as may had thought, lending institutions became wary of advancing credit, especially the kind that had no collateral.
According to the September last year report, credit standards remained unchanged in seven economic sectors and were tightened in four sectors, including personal and household segments.
The others are tourism, transport and communication, and real estate.
Tightened credit is the unavailability of loans for the purpose it’s being borrowed for. It may be due to new conditions set by a financial institution or regulator or the dynamics of the market.
“Tightening of credit standards in the four sectors is attributed to the effects of Covid-19 pandemic,” reads the CBK report.
The report also notes that the expectation regarding general economic activity and removal of interest rate capping also contributed to the tightened credit in the various sectors.
Owing to the fact that most personal and household loans are unsecured, Nyandemo said defaults are more likely, which explains the tightening in lending.
“We will see a high degree of defaults because the economy has been affected with a lot of uncertainties given that we are told of another spike of the disease in July,” he said.
In the September 2020 survey, 69 per cent of credit officers listed personal and household loans among the leading Non-Performing Loans (NPL), which came third after tourism and hotels (72 per cent), transport and communication (72 per cent), and real estate (67 per cent).
This was a 30 per cent rise compared to 2019. 
“During the quarter under review, the respondents indicated that the level of NPLs remained unchanged in five economic sectors and increased in six sectors namely: trade, tourism, building and construction, personal and household, and transport and communication,” reads the September last year report.
This rise in the percentage of NPLs for household and personal use while linked to the general sluggish growth of the economy during the pandemic references the employment rates in the country, which dropped sharply as a result of banks becoming wary of lending as most of the laons are unsecured.
The Short-term Impact of the Covid-19 Shock on Employment in Formal Firms in Kenya (PEDL) report published by Private Enterprise Development in March shows that by April 2020, overall employment in the formal sector dropped by 16 per cent.
The data was sourced from analysing tax returns of private corporations and partnerships filing tax returns for their employees.  
Anyone who has been following Kenya’s budgets over the last few years will recall headlines each year saying that the country has set its largest-ever budget. 
The upcoming 2021/22 fiscal year is no exception, with Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani announcing a budget of Sh3.6 trillion – yes, the biggest ever! A little over Sh2 trillion will come from government revenues, with approximately Sh1.8 trillion of this from tax revenues. 
The balance will be borrowed – another common feature of the last few years. 
This year’s budget comes amidst an economic crisis brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic, with the inherent assumption that the pandemic will come to an end before the start of the next financial year. 
Given surges in infections that are being seen globally, and indeed in Kenya, this assumption may well be the deal-breaker. 
The Ministry of Health has already said that Kenya may see another wave of infections in July, fuelled by the Indian variant.
 This could result in more lockdowns with the associated impact on the economy and indeed revenue collections. T
he lack of vaccines is an issue that the government must address as a matter of great urgency if the country is to get through the pandemic without further economic woes. 
While deficits in government budgets are not uncommon, Kenya seems to be annually widening the gap between expenditure and revenues. 
If one applies this model to their household budget, the upshot will almost certainly be bankruptcy. 
What is actually required is curtailing recurring government expenditures, which is something that the government has acknowledged in the past with proposed austerity measures. 
The reality is that Kenya has not succeeded in doing this, and the pressure on revenue collection is exacerbated. 
When you add to the high level of wastage and corruption we are witnessing, the deficit will almost certainly continue to widen. 
The responsibility for tax collection and enforcement lies with the Kenya Revenue Authority better (KRA). 
There is no doubt that the authority has improved significantly in this task since it was set up in 1995. 
The taxman estimates that 4.4 million tax returns were filed by June 30 last year, up from 3.6 million in the previous year.
While this is a significant improvement, when compared to the country’s population, this number of returns seems unusually low. 
The increase in the number of tax returns, is to a large extent, due to the online reporting system, iTax, and a major push by KRA through taxpayer education.
There is no doubt that the online system has made filing tax returns significantly easier and gone are the large queues of people witnessed at Times Tower on deadline day. 
That said, there is still much to be done to make filing returns a seamless and painless exercise. 
System downtime during filing periods is something that all of us will have experienced, although, in typical Kenyan fashion, we inevitably wait until the last day to file our returns as we do with most things! 
The spreadsheet that one uses to file a return is by no means the simplest to use.  One key issue seems to be that taxpayers are not alerted to changes in the model until they try to upload a return. 
The spreadsheet does not allow one to make it more relevant to their sources of income – in essence, it is too rigid and inflexible. KRA should be able to rectify this without too much effort.
Last year was unusual in that different rates of tax were applicable in the first quarter as compared to the rest of the year. 
This followed the Covid-19 relief measures that were introduced in April 2020. 
There was much debate about whether the changes were meant to apply for the whole year or whether some form of apportionment was needed. 
In the end, the decision was made for apportionment.
One can argue about what the correct treatment should be, but the issue was how long it took for the decision to be made and, indeed, to amend the iTax system. 
The age-old notion has always been that the more complex and difficult it is to file a tax return, the more likely it will be that taxpayers simply won’t file their returns.
While the issue with the system has been resolved, there is an inherent administrative issue here that must be addressed. 
KRA has to be significantly more proactive in dealing with changes in rates and law to ensure the least inconvenience to taxpayers.
The Capital Markets Authority (CMA) has facilitated the admission of seven firms in the CMA Regulatory Sandbox since its launch in March 2019.
This follows the approval of the Regulatory Sandbox Policy Guidance Note (Regulatory Sandbox PGN) in March 2019.
The firms admitted into the Regulatory Sandbox are Pezesha Africa, Innova Limited, Genghis Capital Limited, the Central Depository and Settlement Corporation (CDSC), Pyypl Group Limited, Belrium Kenya Limited and Four Front Management.
The regulator on Monday said it has received 24 applications in robo-advisory, blockchain technology, tokenization of real estate, providing access to global stocks, crowdfunding platforms, Electronic Know Your Customer platform, Screen-Based Security Lending and Borrowing platform, Regtech solutions and Data Analytics.
”The Authority’s commitment to the introduction of the sandbox is aligned to the Capital Market Master Plan (CMMP, 2014-2023) which identites technological innovation as one of the five centres of excellence of the Kenyan capital markets,’’ said Wyckliffe Shamiah
He observed that CMA’s keen interest is to proactively review its supervisory and regulatory model to take into consideration the fast-changing environment across the capital markets’ product and services design, infrastructure, and supervision. 
“CMA has been at the forefront of implementing initiatives to stimulate and support the growth of FinTech and innovation within Kenya’s capital markets. In line with its facilitative role, the Authority seeks to provide a conducive regulatory environment for the deployment of innovative FinTech and business models that have the potential to deepen capital markets in Kenya,’’ he added.
The report covers some of the key milestones achieved including SMEs benefitting from funding through the crowdfunding platform operated by Pezesha Limited.
It also covers the key lessons the sandbox review committee has learnt, opportunities identified so far and how these will be entrenched to make the future sandbox engagements better. 
The Authority has also gathered insights to inform the development of a facilitative regulatory framework for Fintechs.
Green SME financing receives additional Sh2.1 billion
african Guarantee Fund on Monday received a capital increase of Sh2.145 billion (USD 20 million) from the Danish Investment Fund for Developing Countries (IFU) to facilitate green SME financing in Africa.
The capital increase is partially financed by the Danish Government, as part of the Danish “COVID-19 Development Assistance” package.
Including the additional Sh2.1 billion, the total Danish investment in AGF amounts to Sh7.7 billion.  
The capital increment into the African Guarantee Fund will increase the Fund’s capacity to unlock financing for Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in Africa. SMEs in the continent have experienced a deterioration in their creditworthiness as a result of the economic impact of Covid-19.
The United Nations Economic Commission for Africa 2020 survey reports business closure, lack of operational cashflow and a drop in demand as the top challenges facing African SMEs as a result of the pandemic. 
“The initial Danish capital injection into the African Guarantee Fund not only generated economic and social impact but also helped to attract more capital from other Development Finance Institutions,” said AGF’s CEO, Jules Ngankam.  
“With this capital increment, our capacity to offer more green guarantees to financial institutions is enhanced and will facilitate sustainable financing for green transition in Africa,” he said
“Private SMEs are vital for creating and safeguarding decent jobs in Africa, but they face huge challenges in the Covid-19 crisis. We are confident that our investment will attract other investors to exploit the proven potential of SMEs in Africa,” said IFU’s CEO, Torben Huss
The ban on logging in public forests three years ago has had mixed results, environmentalists say.
The Environment Ministry in 2018 imposed a nationwide ban on timber harvesting in all public and community forests to allow reassessment and rationalisation of the entire forest sector in the country following calls to save the main water towers.
But while it has helped improve forest cover, it has also seen the prices of timber more than double as traders cash in on increased demand amid a biting shortage.
According to Earth Journalism Network, an Internews and Internews Europe project, more than 100,000 hectares of the Mau Forest had been destroyed as of the year 2000.
And according to United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), up to 107,000 hectares of the Mau Forest Complex’s 416,000 hectares were destroyed between 1990 and 2001.
Environmentalists also claim the initiative has not done much in boosting forest cover but has instead created a shortage that has, in turn, led to unchecked cutting down of trees in private farmlands to fill the gap.
Initially, the State had planned to improve forest cover by 10 per cent by 2022, a target that now seems out of reach.
The Environment Ministry last year said Sh48 billion is needed to implement the strategy, with Environment and Forestry Principal Secretary Chris Kiptoo lamenting the lack of financial support from the National Treasury. 
Other stakeholders say the ban has nearly doubled the demand for timber products, making Kenya a net importer of wood from countries such as Malawi, Uganda, Congo and Tanzania.
Kinoro David, a Nairobi-based timber trader who imports timber from Malawi through Tanzania, said it takes him over one week to get the cargo into the country.
“There is high demand for timber driven by the construction sector and furniture business. It is, however, a struggle to get the product following the ban; local private farms which provided an option cannot meet the demand, forcing us to rely on imports from neighbouring countries,” said Mr Kinoro.
“Before the 2018 ban, we sold a board foot (bf) for Sh40, but the price has more than doubled to Sh100. The time taken to get the product to the Kenyan market is another issue, making the business cumbersome.”  
Most of the imported timber includes pine, cypress and mahogany. Uganda, Malawi, and Tanzania are the key source markets for pine and cypress, while mahogany is mainly sourced from Congo.
The National Alliance of Community Forest Association Secretary Gerald Ngatia noted that since the implementation of the logging ban, tea factories, schools and other institutions dependent on public forests for wood products have been affected greatly.
“Public forests produce the bulk of wood used locally. We are seeing massive harvesting of trees going on in private farms to fill the supply gap, which is still not enough,” said Mr Ngatia.
“Saw millers, who depended on public forests, are facing the auctioneers’ hammer.”
The government imposed a moratorium on logging in public and community forests in 2018.
The ministry of environment has implemented the ban in phases. Initially, it started as a three-month ban before it was increased to six months and later one year.
Last November, Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko partially lifted the logging ban in public and community forests.
The move was to allow for harvesting and disposal of mature and over-mature forest plantations for an area not exceeding 5,000 hectares.
“Having considered the recommendations of both the Board of Management of Kenya Forest Service..., the government has decided that the moratorium on logging in public and community forests shall continue but varied and or modified to allow for harvesting and disposal of mature forest plantations,” said Tobiko.
He said the harvesting and disposal would be oversighted by a multi-agency team.
Despite the partial lifting of the ban, Timber Manufacturers Association (TMA) say the industry is still bleeding from the government’s directive, with many saw millers forced to close shop amid piling debts.
TMA Communications Secretary Clement Nyoro said the industry directly employs 50,000 people and relies on government forests for timber.
He said the move had left mature trees set for harvest to rot away.
He added that the industry injected close to Sh500 million annually into the economies of such towns as Njoro, Elburgon, Molo and Timboroa, which have now been left desolate.
Kenya has a forest cover of 7.4 per cent of its land area compared to 12 per cent 50 years ago.
The ban restricted the extraction of timber from the forests to give KFS more time to implement measures to protect forests.
Kebs wants all thermal guns re-calibrated
The standards body has asked owners of thermal guns (non-contact infrared thermometer) to re-calibrate them to improve the accuracy of their readings.
The gadgets are used to check temperatures in public places and hospitals in the fight against Covid-19. Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) said the re-calibration ought to take into account any ‘drift’ or low change in the response of a gauge - in the course of their use.
This has been occasioned by instances of faulty readings of these devices which are now mandatory in all public spaces for screening possible Covid-19 cases.
Drifting on measurement gadgets occurs as part of the ageing process of some of the components of the device or changes in the environment among them humidity or temperatures. 
Any temperature above 37.5 degrees Celsius is considered above normal, hence a suspected Covid-19 case.
Josephat Bangi, who heads the metrology department at the Kenya Bureau of Standards, said one sign that the thermal gun needs to be re-calibrated is when it becomes ‘erratic’ when giving readings.
“People have their temperature taken and it turns out to be not as expected or not specific,” he explained.
When you notice your thermal gun is erratic, and it gives erratic measurements, then it could be time for it to be re-calibrated.
Bangi says while some thermal guns have an upper limit reading of 42 degrees Celsius, some can go to 50. “Some are also affected by magnetism,” he said.
Sometimes, he noted, depends on the manufacturer’s instructions. 
“What is recommended depends on the frequency of use. There are places where thermo guns measure small populations, maybe you have five people in your institution while there are other organisations where the number of people being measured in a day is so huge and the thermo gun is so busy the whole day,” he explained.
Some manufacturers would recommend after a year but there are no uniform timelines as this depends on the frequency of use. 
While Kenya’s history is replete with economic blueprints ranging from Vision 2030 to the Big Four Agenda, there has not been clear articulation of the principles guiding the collection of revenue to fund the country’s growth plans.
And as Kenyans find themselves facing a mountain of debt and its attendant high taxation policies that touch on everything from bread to infant milk, the anger is palpable.
Now more than ever, there is a great need to have a new tax policy that outlines the principles that will guide the Kenyan economy into prosperity.
Ideas around taxation principles have been floated by various thinkers over the last few centuries.
  Adam Smith wrote in the Wealth of Nations that “…the economic incomes of private people are of three main types: rent, wages and profit. Ordinary taxpayers will ultimately pay their taxes from at least one of these revenue sources.”
In his mind, Smith must have classified the entire economy into the three factors of production of land, labour and enterprise. 
His ideas have been enriched over time and today we also include the fourth factor of production which is capital - whose income is in the form of interest.
In many ways, these four factors of production might be compared to the four legs of a table that give it stability and balance.
They are the four building blocks of the economy – emphasising one at the expense of others creates an imbalance and generates instability across the entire system.
Of all the four factors of production, it is the entrepreneur who has borne the brunt of over taxation.
From the introduction of the digital service tax targeting online businesses to the increase in VAT on fuel products, and now with the controversial minimum tax laws, the catalogue of obstacles facing the business community is alarming.
All this while, the Covid pandemic is ravaging the economy, leaving many jobless and contributing to a very restless environment. 
Whereas many might hope that the full reopening of the economy will help mitigate this harsh environment, there is a wave of discontentment across the country that calls for a fundamental transformation of our economic model into one that values and promotes enterprise and innovation.
In sharp contrast, the factor of production associated with capital appears to have been spared from the harsh taxation regime evident in the other areas. 
The Treasury proposal to remove the excise tax of 20 per cent on bank loans will lessen the tax load in the banking sector by up to Sh7 billion annually. There was a promise that this could see banks reducing loan costs, but these claims have been impeached by evidence on the ground pointing to the contrary.
Such examples reinforce a narrative that Kenya’s economic model is anchored on punishing enterprise but rewarding capital.
In the final analysis, a sense of balance and stability can only be achieved through a new tax policy that equally draws from all the factors of production.
Through a spirit of shared responsibility, Kenya can be able to raise enough tax revenue without one party feeling overburdened.
A song released about 14 years ago by the group Boomba Clan, titled ‘African Timer’ talked about how Africans rarely keep time.
But all over Kenya, the motorbikes, popularly known as bodaboda, have been an antidote to the ‘lateness syndrome’.
Due to their speed and convenience, the bikes have seen their popularity skyrocket, even earning their way into ride-hailing apps such as Uber and Bolt.
One thing, though, is weighing down this transport sub-sector: the cost of fuel.
John Njeru has been in the bodaboda business in Nairobi’s central business district for the past six years and he says he has experienced a sharp rise in fuel costs.
“Back in 2015 when I was starting off my business, I would use Sh200 worth of petrol for a whole day. Today my fuel cost ranges Sh500 to Sh1,000,” he says.
Fuel consumed by the motorbikes varies with how large the engine is; more powerful engines will consume more.
“Brands such as TVS, Boxer and SkyGo consume more petrol compared to other motorbikes,” says Njeru.
“The high consumers hold an advantage, especially here in Nairobi CBD where we do deliveries of heavy products, which need more power.”
Joseph Gikaru is a young man who joined the bodaboda industry two years ago.
He says after the recent reopening of the economy, more people are commuting and he is ferrying more customers, yet his profits have not improved.
“My bike consumes more since I do more trips but fuel cost is quite high, keeping my profits at the same level,” he says.
“I used to buy Sh400 worth of petrol for a day, now I use Sh600.”
The traffic gridlock in Nairobi has also contributed to higher bodaboda usage. It is a critical balance between cost of transport and convenience.
But with many people’s disposable income reducing from the impact of Covid-19, Gikaru has observed that a good number of commuters would rather wait in traffic in a matatu than take a bodaboda, which is costlier.
Chacha Nyaigoti Bichiang'a Personal Financial expert and Coach. 
He is also the author of the book Mastering your money.
The subject of money is emotive and controversial, especially among Africans. It is the number one cause of conflicts in families and institutions.
The big question however is: Why do many people experience many problems with money?
 Personal financial coach Chacha Nyaigoti Bichiang’a argues that the main root cause of financial problems is lack of financial mastery and literacy.
A past survey conducted by the World Bank showed that many people around the world are financially illiterate but the numbers are high in low-income countries. 
The study adds that low level of financial literacy has led to adverse financial outcomes. 
Even so, society is still struggling to come to terms with the myths and misconceptions people have about the concept of money, which emanates from the way they were brought up.
“The way we were brought up when young, relating with parents, school system, religious groups, and mass media are all agents of socialisation that have made us develop certain beliefs about money,” said Bichiang’a, a personal financial coach and author of mastering your money.
To take stock of the evidence, Kenya has well-trained financial experts yet it has a lot of controversies concerning money.
Talk of money-laundering, high debts and poor economic growth that forces investors to rethink their plans. This has something to do with poor financial management.
Churches have fallen victim of disintegration due to the impact brought about by money. 
For a long time, money has been defined as a medium of exchange. However, over the years, money has undergone a transformation.
Right from barter trade, metallic coins such as silver and gold, to paper money.
 Now we are talking about digital currencies that can also be referred to as e-money. 
We can now conduct business using electronic means such as electronic funds transfer- M-Pesa, and even pay our bills using digital money.
The other form of currency, which has been introduced in the country, but has not been fully accepted is Cryptocurrency.
 A good example is Bitcoin which even the Central Bank of Kenya has not allowed for widespread use. 
Money therefore can be said to be more than a medium of exchange but a store of value.
This means that with Sh1000, you can decide to buy shares at the Nairobi Securities Exchange. 
“You simply store the value of money in the shares. So, when you buy 100 shares of Safaricom using Sh1,000, that means the value of your money is in the shares that you have bought,” said Bichiang’a.
According to Bichiang’a, money can also be an idea. 
For one to make money, one needs to come up with an idea which can generate money. 
And this is where creativity kicks in. Wealth can be determined by how much one is able to generate.
He said even M-Pesa money transfer platform itself was an idea which has made Safaricom one of the biggest companies in East and Central Africa.
“By coming up with an idea, it means the idea can now fade and earn income which can then be stored in properties or in valuable means of owning wealth,” Bichiang’a said.
Motorists using super petrol will have to dig deeper into their pockets after the government increased the price of the fuel by Sh3.56 per litre, pushing the cost to Sh126.37 in Nairobi.
Users of diesel and kerosene were, however, spared the hike with the cost of the two products remaining unchanged for the third consecutive month.
In its latest price guideline released yesterday, the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority (Epra) also restored the margins for oil marketing companies, which had been slashed last month in a move to cushion Kenyans from a price increase.
“In the period under review, the price for super petrol increases by Sh3.56 per litre while that of diesel and kerosene remains unchanged,” said Epra in a statement signed by acting director-general Daniel Kiptoo.
Diesel, heavily used by transporters and manufacturers, will sell at Sh107.66 in Nairobi while kerosene, a lighting and cooking fuel largely for the poor, will retail at Sh97.85 in the capital.
The hike in the price of petrol came despite a drop in the cost of crude oil in April, when the products that will be consumed in the country over the May-June pricing cycle were procured.
Epra may, however, have factored in the costs associated with the price stabilisation in April and that spared consumers higher prices.
At Sh126.37 per litre, petrol will be retailing at its highest since September 2018 when it reached Sh127.8 per litre after the government introduced 16 per cent value-added tax (VAT) on fuel.
The high prices were short-lived, though, as the government reduced the VAT rate to eight per cent after yielding to public outcry.
When it retained April-May prices at the same level as March, Epra and the Petroleum ministry had brokered a deal with the oil marketing companies to slash their margins, but later be compensated by the National Treasury.
The companies took a Sh4.44 cut per litre of petrol.
The cut was less on kerosene at Sh3.47 and diesel at Sh2.28 per litre.
In all, it is estimated that the total amount taken from the marketers last month was Sh1.34 billion.
While Treasury refunded the oil marketers the Sh1.34 billion, there was an extra cost of Sh0.50 per litre of fuel, said to be the administrative cost of processing and disbursing the compensation to the oil firms.
The amount was to be passed to the consumer and recovered over the May-June pricing cycle.
The fee was due to four companies that imported fuel under the Open Tender System (OTS), who were charged with disbursing the refunds from Treasury.
The marketers and the Petroleum ministry officials had at an April 15 meeting agreed that the Sh0.50 per litre was a prudent cost incurred in the delivery of petroleum products to Kenyans.
OTS is a Petroleum Ministry supervised system that pools the fuel needs of the oil firms and the marketers that bid to import at low prices get the job.
A total of 433 million litres of petrol were imported through OTS for the April-May cycle.
M-Pesa, and even pay our bills using digital money. 
The other form of currency, which has been introduced in the country, but has not been fully accepted is cryptocurrency. 
This means that with Sh1000, you can decide to buy shares at the Nairobi Securities Exchange. “You simply store the value of money in the shares. So, when you buy 100 shares of Safaricom using Sh1,000, that means the value of your money is in the shares that you have bought,” said Bichiang’a.
According to Bichiang’a, money can also be an idea. For one to make money, one needs to come up with an idea that can generate money. And this is where creativity kicks in. Wealth can be determined by how much one is able to generate.
He said even M-Pesa money transfer platform itself was an idea that has made Safaricom one of the biggest companies in East and Central Africa.
“By coming up with an idea, it means the idea can now fade and earn income which can then be stored in properties or invaluable means of owning wealth,” Bichiang’a said.
Nairobi motorists will pay Sh126.37 per litre for petrol after the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority (EPRA) increased prices by Sh3.56 per litre.
It is, however, a relief for Diesel and Kerosene consumers with prices unchanged. Diesel in Nairobi will, from midnight, retail at Sh107.66 per litre while Kerosene will be sold at Sh97.85 per litre.
In Mombasa, petrol will retail at Sh123.95 per litre while Diesel and Kerosene will go for Sh105.27 and Sh95.46 per litre respectively.
In a statement, EPRA said the average landed cost of imported petrol decreased by 0.57 per cent from US$491.50 per cubic metre in March 2021 to US$488.69 per cubic metre in April 2021.
Last month, the regulator bowed to pressure from the public to retain prices of fuel in the April-May adjustments.
 Prices of petrol, diesel and kerosene remained unchanged at Sh122.81 in Nairobi, diesel Sh107.66 and kerosene at Sh97.85 for the one month to May 14
When it retained April-May prices at the same level as March-April, Epra and  the Petroleum Ministry had brokered a deal with oil marketing companies to slash their margins. 
Thehe oil firms were later compensated by the National Treasury.
The companies took a Sh4.44 cut per litre of petrol. 
The cut was less on Kerosene at Sh3.47 and diesel at Sh2.28 per litre. 
In all, it is estimated that the total amount taken form the marketers was Sh1.34 billion.
While Treasury refunded the lost margins in the course of last month, there was an extra cost of Sh0.50 per litre of fuel, said to be the administrative cost of processing and disbursing the compensation to the oil marketing companies.
The marketers and the petroleum Ministry had at an April 15 meeting agreed that the Sh0.50 per litre was a prudent cost incurred in the delivery of petroleum products to Kenyans and would be recovered during the May-June pricing cycle
 “The administration fee incurred by cargo buyers during this process is considered a prudent cost and shall be included in the import cost build of the OTS cargoes to be considered in the May-June 2021 pricing cycle,” reads the minute of the meeting signed by Andrew Kamau PS Petroleum and Daniel Kiptoo acting chief executive Epra.
MPesa has now become the leading revenue stream for Safaricom, beating voice that has traditionally been the company’s mainstay. 
The mobile money service earned Safaricom Sh82.65 billion while voice service generated Sh82.55 billion in the year that ended March 31.
This performance came even as the telco reported a 6.8 per cent drop in profit after tax to Sh68.6 billion compared to Sh73.6 billion reported the previous year.
The profit was held down by Central Bank’s directive to mobile operators to offer mobile money transactions under Sh1,000 free of charge last year as well as the poor state of the economy due to Covid-19.
However, Peter Ndegwa, the Safaricom chief executive said the company’s earnings were better than anticipated as the company and the economy appeared to head into recovery in the second half of the financial year.
We’ve faced quite a turbulent year but our business has delivered on the higher end of the guidance range,” he said while releasing the results yesterday. 
The company had projected to make pre-tax profit of between Sh91 billion and Sh94 billion for the year, a 10 per cent drop from the previous year.
However, it reported even better results at Sh96.16 billion in earnings before interest and tax. 
“The recovery in the second half of the year was driven by the return to charging on M-Pesa transactions in the fourth quarter, double-digit growth in mobile data, fixed data growth alongside growth in consumers and usage,” said Ndegwa. 
Safaricom recorded Sh250 billion in total service revenue, a marginal decline of 0.3 per cent.
Overall, M-Pesa revenue fell by Sh1.8 billion in the last financial year from Sh84.44 billion made in the previous year, the largest drop in recent years.
The most affected revenue streams were in mobile money transfers and payments, which reported Sh4.2 billion and Sh1.7 billion drop in earnings for the year. 
The telco said about 1.7 billion M-Pesa transactions with a value of Sh4.4 trillion were zero-rated.
At the same time, revenue from voice fell by Sh4 billion from Sh86.53 billion while SMS revenue grew 11.7 per cent to Sh13.6 billion as at the end of the financial year. 
The firm now counts 31.4 million one-month active customers as at the end of last year and 28.3 million on M-Pesa.  
Safaricom further realised Sh4.2 billion in earnings from sports betting in the period under review, marking a 12 per cent increase compared to last year.
This was largely attributed to a decision by the High Court earlier this year that lifted a ban on outdoor advertising on betting and the resumption of sporting activities towards the end of the financial year.   
At the same time, increased demand for internet connectivity saw the company’s revenues from mobile data and usage in the home fibre segment hit new highs.
Mobile data revenue stood at Sh44.7 billion, an increase of Sh4.6 billion compared to the figure reported during a similar period last year.
The number of active customers on the company’s fibre to the home business rose to 137,400 as at the end of last year, up from 104,500 in the previous year. 
“Fixed service and wholesale transit revenue grew six per cent year-on-year to Sh9.5 billion supported by growth in fibre to the home revenue, which grew 49 per cent to Sh3.5 billion,” said Dilip Pal, the chief finance officer.
“This was driven by working and schooling from home trends across our customers and increased penetration of homes connected.”
Pal further said a reduction in capital expenditure by 3.2 per cent to Sh34.9 billion as well as a similar drop in operating expenditure to Sh46 billion managed to stem some of the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the bottom line. 
The company has proposed to pay Sh36.8 billion in dividends for the year, which is 34 per cent less than the Sh56 billion it paid out the previous year.
Chinese firms fight over Sh20 billion dam on River Nyando
The planned construction of a Sh20 billion water dam along Kisumu’s River Nyando has hit a false start after two Chinese companies that bid for the job opened a vicious legal battle over the award of the tender.
China Gezhouba, one of the firms that bid for the job, has moved to the procurement review board to contest award of the tender to China Jiangxi Economic Cooperation citing irregularities in the tendering process.
China Gezhouba, which placed a Sh19.2 billion bid for the job reckons that the National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority’s (NWHSA) decision to award the contract to China Jiangxi was irregular and unfair as the rival firm had placed a higher bid of Sh19.9 billion.
Public procurement regulations require that prequalification to evaluate a bidder’s ability to perform the contract obligations is done before the process moves to the technical and financial evaluation stage which awards the contract to ‘the lowest evaluated bidder.’
In its appeal to the Public Procurement Administration Review Board (PPARB), China Gezhouba argues that the water harvesting authority did not pick the lowest bidder for the Nyando dam works, causing it to lose the job.
But the National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority has responded to the appeal arguing that China Gezhouba had failed to meet all the contract requirements and therefore did not make it to the final round of the tendering.
“The Act provides that the successful tender is one with the lowest evaluated price,... In this case the applicant was not the lowest evaluated tender and was therefore not denied his rightful advance to the technical and financial evaluation stages.”
The water harvesting authority says China Gezhouba had, among other things, submitted documents in Chinese whose translation to English language had not been certified.
The firm also failed to commit to buy at least 40 per cent of the supplies used in construction of the dam from local firms, the water harvesting authority says adding that the petitioner also failed to demonstrate capacity through proof of ownership of earthmovers and other equipment for the job.
 China Gezhouba is also said to have failed to provide evidence of permanent residency in Kenya. 
The water harvesting authority says it is for these reasons that China Gezhoub’s bid was declared non-responsive and did not proceed to the technical and financial evaluation stage.
But China Gezhouba has refuted the claims insisting it had complied with all the requirements set out by the water authority in the tender documents.
In its filings at the PPARB, the company wants the board to direct the water authority to evaluate the bids afresh, this time round taking into consideration the documents it had submitted.
“The reason provided by the procuring entity… are incorrect and misleading and were arrived at by misapprehending the tender documents submitted by the applicant,” China Gezhouba says in its filing at the PPARB.
China Gezhouba claims that award of the tender to China Jiangxi was contrary to provisions of the Procurement Act and the Constitution that require procuring entities to ensure cost-effectiveness.
“The award of the tender to the second respondent (China Jiangxi) did not meet the constitutional threshold of fairness, equity, transparency and competitiveness… neither was it in compliance with the principles set out in Section three of the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act,” the company says.
China Gezhouba is not new to Kenya’s construction market and has won multi-billion shilling tenders for construction of major works, including Thwake Dam in Makueni County as well as the Northern Collector Tunnel in Murang'a County.
Sharon Obonyo, the water authority's Chief Executive, in a replying affidavit filed with PPARB insists that China Gezhouba had failed to follow the guidelines that the authority had provided when it invited bids for construction of the dam.
Ms Obonyo says there are disparities between the documents that China Gezhouba submitted in its appeal to the PPARB and what it had submitted to the authority during the tendering. 
“The documents presented to PPARB are in some instances misleading and total forgeries as the same are different from the documents submitted in the bid document,” the authority says.
Ms Obonyo also says China Gezhouba had sent its commitment to source 40 per cent of supplies locally after the bids had been opened. 
She insists China Gezhouba had sent an email with the letter on April 9 at 5.40pm while the bids had been opened earlier in the day at 9.00am. 
She accused the firm of tampering with the emails filed with the procurement review board as evidence to show that it had sent the email earlier. 
“I have noted with extreme concern that the applicant’s email screengrab… has been tampered with and is a pure forgery,” Ms Obonyo says in her affidavit.
“Specifically, a keen examination of the applicant’s exhibit… shows that the same has been tampered with to mislead the board to perceive as if the email was sent on Friday April 9, 2021 at 7.40am instead of… 17.40 hours by inculcating into the email screen grab a clear alteration or deletion of the number 1 and addition of the suffix AM."
She added that because of failure to submit all the requirements, China Gezhouba was dismissed as a non-responsive bidder and hence its bid was not considered. 
“From the foregoing, the applicant did not meet the preliminary responsiveness and mandatory requirements… the applicant’s bid could therefore not proceed for technical evaluation,” says Ms Obonyo.
Other firms that bid for the job were SBI International Holdings at Sh26 billion and Just Nice Construction at Sh22 billion.
The Soin-Koru dam, which has been in the works for years, is supposed to be put up along the River Nyando in Kisumu County to contain perennial flooding as well as improve water access for residents.
It is also expected to expand rice farming in Kano Plains.
In the tender documents, the authority said it was working with a budget of Sh23 billion, including taxes, to build the government-financed dam. 
“The Soin-Koru Dam is a multi-purpose project that will reduce the perennial flooding on the lower reaches of River Nyando. It will also supply water for domestic, irrigation and hydropower generation,” it said.
 The dam with a water storage capacity of 93.7 million cubic metres will provide 72,000 cubic metres of water per day for domestic and institutional use.
The water authority had started the tender process last year but was forced back to the drawing board after all the bidders failed to meet minimum set standards. 
It restarted the process earlier this year that culminated in the award of the tender on April 15.
Parts of Kisumu, Kericho and Nandi counties are expected to benefit from the water supplied by the dam which will be located at the border of Kisumu and Kericho counties. 
“Flooding is a frequent phenomenon in the lower reaches of the Nyando River Basin and poses problems to the communities especially in the lower zones of the river basin,” said the authority in the environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA) lodged with the National Environment Management Authority.
 A 2009 report by the Ministry of Water quantified the impact of floods on the lower reaches of River Nyando, noting that it displaced 5,000 people annually and left them with losses of about Sh49 million due to damage to property.
Kisumu County Government recently said it requires about Sh400 million to repair roads destroyed by flooding following recent rains. 
The Nyando flooding also interfered with the seasonal patterns of agriculture, threatening livelihoods and food security in the area, according to the water authority.
 The flood water also destroys infrastructure as well as a general disruption of socio-economic activities, with the residents required to evacuate from their homes whenever there are heavy rains.
“Apart from constant flooding, the lower reaches of the Nyando River are also plagued by prolonged drought spells resulting in scarcity of water for irrigation,” said the authority in the ESIA.
 “During the period, the Nyando River flow is low and a number of irrigation schemes in the area cannot operate at full capacity, especially in lowers areas of Kano Plain where there are rice paddies.”
 It added that water from the dam had potential to increase the area under irrigation from 1,800 hectares to 5,170 hectares in and around Ahero and West Kano Irrigation schemes.  
The free M-Pesa transactions for amounts below Sh1,000 at the height of the Covid-19 pandemic last year weighed down on Safaricom’s overall earnings for the year ended 2020.
The telco reported a 6.8 per cent drop in profit after tax of Sh68.7 billion for the year ended March 2021 from Sh73.7 billion in the previous period.
During this period, Safaricom enabled Kenyans to reduce the impact of the pandemic by waiving fees for transactions below a Sh1,000, which saw free transactions worth Sh4.4 billion processed.
Service revenue, mostly from voice and data, recorded a marginal decline of 0.3 per cent to close at Sh250.35 billion driven by double-digit growth in mobile data business, which grew by 11.5 per cent to Sh44.79 billion.
Amid the coronavirus pandemic, some companies implemented work-from-home arrangements that helped boost Internet usage. 
M-Pesa and voice revenue declined marginally, with M-Pesa recording a 2.1 per cent drop to Sh82. 64 billion and voice dropping by 4.6 per cent to Sh82.55 billion.
“We remained resilient in a disruptive year, demonstrating strong operational capacity, diligence and commitment in supporting the country, our customers and shareholders through this uncertain time,” Peter Ndegwa, Safaricom CEO.
“Our immediate focus in the year has been to ensure that network capacity, operations and financial services are prioritized to limit disruptions.”
M-Pesa accounted for 33 per cent of the total service revenue down from 33.6 per cent last year, impacted by the waiver of the peer-to-peer transactions fees.
Speaking during the virtual release of the results, Safaricom Chairman Michael Joseph said the telco has embarked on a journey that will see it turn into a purpose-led company.
“This will see our attention in the coming months shifting to areas such as the agriculture, education, healthcare, support for Small and Medium Enterprises and regional expansion,” he added.
On regional expansion, Safaricom is leveraging on a new consortium to make an entry into the vast Ethiopian telecommunications market, to help it grow its revenues and market share to a new high.
In a statement released in April, the Ethiopian Communications Authority (ECA) said Safaricom was one of the members of a consortium that includes Vodacom Group Ltd (South Africa), Vodafone Group Plc (UK), CDC Group Plc (UK) and Sumitomo Corporation (Japan) that submitted bids for a nationwide telecommunication service licence.
The licence will allow the winning bidder (s) to roll out telecommunication services in competition with the State-run Ethio Telecom on voice and data across Ethiopia’s 112 million citizens.
“Under these licences, service providers will have the right to provide any telecommunication service including voice, text and data using any technology whether fixed or wireless anywhere within Ethiopia and to send and receive telecommunications to and from outside Ethiopia,” stated the ECA while inviting for bids.
The winning consortium will be allowed to have an initial licence term of at least 15 years with the possibility of renewal.
The company will pay Sh18 billion in dividends, which is Sh0.45 per share.
Ndegwa said they estimate earnings before Interest to be in the range Sh105 – 108 billion in 2022.
A charter flight operated by a Romanian airliner lands at the Moi International airport in Mombasa.
The uptake of chartered flights in the local market has been slow, denying operators an important revenue stream.
According to players in the industry, high costs drive away potential customers, who prefer the cheaper scheduled flights.
“Charter flights are relatively more expensive than regular scheduled flights. One has to cater for costs of the empty return legs,” says Kenya Airways acting Chief Commercial Officer Julius Thairu.
He, however, notes that the narrative is slowly changing due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which has made social distancing the norm.
“Over the last one year, there has been aggressive competition as airlines enter this space to utilise their idle capacity due to the pandemic. They are competing with traditional charter airlines whose operating models and years of experience make them more price-competitive.”
According to Thairu, during the peak of the pandemic, London had a high demand as Heathrow remained open to international flights. 
Currently, China and Central Africa have a high demand for charter flights.
Last year, Kenya Airways converted some of its passenger aircraft into cargo planes, targeting fresh produce business.
One of the planes, a Boeing 787 Dreamliner, flew from Nairobi to London in April last year with 40 tonnes of fresh produce consisting of vegetables and flowers.
Bluebird Aviation and Safarilink Airline say the uptake of chartered services are now common especially with international tourists seeking to venture into places like the Masai Mara National Reserve and Laikipia County.
The uptake for repatriation and special flights for both passenger and cargo, especially for the Covid-19 vaccine, also presents a lifeline to the aviation industry.
According to the International Air Transport Association, industry losses topped $84 billion (Sh9 trillion) in 2020, with a prediction of a fragile 2021 as passenger revenues plummet.
Before the lifting of recent travel restrictions, which barred travel in and out of Nairobi, Kiambu, Machakos, Nakuru and Kajiado counties, Skyward based some of its aircraft outside Nairobi to serve routes such as Malindi, Mombasa, Eldoret, Lamu and Lodwar.
“Charter flights is an alternative we are open to since commercial flights are restricted by the Covid-19 containment measures,” says Kelvin Mwasi, Skyward commercial manager.
Bluebird Aviation also confirms it has recorded increased demand for its private charter flights since the outbreak of the pandemic.
General Manager Captain Hussein Mohammed says while the usual private charterers have maintained their demand, albeit, at a reduced frequency, there has been an increase of clients. 
World Marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge with Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala at the Nairobi National Park on January 8, 2021.
The government has hinted at a new model of business for the tourism sector which might see convention centres, national parks and game reserves managed by private agencies.
Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala, while addressing the European Union Green Diplomacy Webinar yesterday, said the sector cannot run the business as usual owing to the pandemic.
He said the industry has learnt more from Covid-19, which should inform changes on its business models.
 “The pandemic has taught us lessons. We have woken up to a new reality that we must change. Nobody is left out and anybody going to open up after the pandemic must be refreshed,” he said.
The CS said the sector was eyeing new investments and exploring fresh business models that will ease entry into new markets and reduce operating costs as part of the transformative agenda to revitalise the business. 
“Why is everything being done by one entity? Why don’t we outsource?” he posed.
Mr Balala noted that public-private partnerships offer good examples of how this new model can work - even questioning why the State still manages key facilities.
“Why does the government run a convention bureau or facility? Why don’t we outsource and make it more efficient,” he asked.
“Why does the government run a national park? These are the things that need to be corrected, and this is the time to think again.”
This new model will also see the government cut down on the number of institutions in the sector.
Balala said the idea is to have a lean team, and rely heavily on technology.
“How do you ensure you are lean, effective and efficient? These things need to be rethought,” he said. 
If we continue with the same models as before the pandemic, I do not think we will be able to progress.
The CS said the adoption of technology post-Covid-19 should go beyond Facebook and Twitter, noting that the whole business economy depends on applications. 
“Actually sales applications. That is why the investment of broadband capacity and smartphones is very key,” said Balala.
He observed that the government can adequately maximise its 6,000 staff without stretching them with the deployment of drones.
He said Covid-19 has taught the sector the importance of the domestic market - necessitating a change in the business model.
“Nobody imagined that there is a market called the domestic market. Not only Kenya; we tried it but a lot of countries never appreciated their local and domestic clientele who are the people around you,” he said.
Bipartisan MPs spearheading minimum reforms before next year’s elections have identified at least ten non-controversial proposals in the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) Bill to pursue through a parliamentary route.
The creation of a Prime Minister’s position and two deputies, increase in allocation of funds to counties, creation of ward fund, restructuring the electoral agency, re-looking security laws and expediting corruption cases are top on their agenda.
Other issues include the number of constituencies, equalisation fund to the counties, the two-thirds gender rule and seven-year tax break for youthful entrepreneurs.
The group of 13 members from the National Assembly and Senate will have a luncheon in Nairobi on Tuesday to deliberate the zero draft being worked on by their technical team.
 They will then start consensus-building. 
A similar process was done in 1997 through the Inter-Parties Parliamentary Group (IPPG) that led to peaceful elections the same year. 
The caucus’s move is informed by recent High Court judgement that declared BBI-driven Constitution of Kenya Bill 2020 unconstitutional. 
A five-judge bench comprising Justices Joel Ngugi, George Odunga, Teresia Matheka, Chacha Mwita and Jairus Ngaah declared BBI illegal, null and void, thus halting the political baby-child of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Handshake partner ODM leader Raila Odinga.
Former National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale said the move sought to fast-track the reform process ahead of the 2022 General Election.
“Key among the reforms is a review of the electoral and security laws, including the role of police in elections, to stop what we recently witnessed in the some by-elections. We will then incorporate the pro-people ideas in the BBI Bill,” said Duale.
He added that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) should be fully constituted one year to the General Election. He added they would also seek to have the Constituency Development Fund (CDF) in the law.
Justice George Odunga, presiding Judge, Justice Joel Ngugi and Justice Jairus Ngaah during the delivery of Judgement by a five-Judge Bench on the Constitutionalism of BBI and Petition seeking to stop IEBC from conducting a referendum to implement the BBI Bill. 
Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior told TheSunday Standard that apart from restructuring the IEBC, they would review other electoral laws, including conduct of elections, nominations, and dispute resolution.
He said they were still mulling over bringing the Executive into Parliament and whether it would need a referendum.
“We will look at all the issues and review what can pass and avoid those that need a referendum because it is not easy to hold it before elections,” he said.
The group brings together senators Kilonzo Jr, James Orengo (Siaya), Mithika Linturi (Meru), Johnson Sakaja (Nairobi) and Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho).
Legislators include Gatundu South’s Moses Kuria, Abdulswamad Nassir (Mvita), Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale), Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba), Soipan Tuya (Narok Woman Rep), Cecily Mbarire (nominated) and Otiende Amolo (Rarieda).
Kuria said the creation a Prime Minister’s position through a parliamentary process was feasible given that all they need is to create a position of a chief minister and rename it.
“There is nothing that stops Parliament from creating the position,” said Kuria.
The BBI process had sought to change at least 78 clauses of the Constitution but Sakaja said they had isolated those that were controversial and would ask different stakeholders what their irreducible minimums were.
“Issues like doing away with an Ombudsman in the Judiciary, creation of 70 constituencies, two-thirds top up in the National Assembly and Senate and the issue of male and female senator reverting to woman representative as it was are controversial but we will navigate through them,” Sakaja said.
The strengthening of provisions on the formula of creating constituencies in Article 89 to ensure equality of vote and increase constituencies by 70 and let IEBC determine the distribution in strict adherence to the formula was also on the table.
“This will be a deliberative and consensus-building process over the next two weeks that will have people sitting together. A Constitution is about the people and should ideally be a consensus document,” said Sakaja.
However, Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi accused a section of leaders in government and Opposition of scheming to scuttle the BBI reforms agenda.
“Those who cobbled together the IPPG talks did so with the objective of scuttling the clamour for comprehensive reforms and they succeeded. That is why it took us another decade to realise the reforms we were fighting for in 1997,” said Wandayi.
Wandayi, also the ODM secretary for political affairs, said they were wary of the new move.
 “We are going to reject those attempts until the matter of BBI is concluded in the courts,” He added that any attempts to dismember the BBI through the IPPG would be rejected.
Prof Hassan Mwakimako, a board member of Muhuri, which also petitioned the BBI process in court, said Parliament slept on the job.
“They have woken up whereas we called on them from the word go to take charge of the process; now they are trying to reinvent the wheel.”
Elegeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has challenged President Uhuru Kenyatta to visit every region in the company of his deputy to foster unity in the country.
Elgeyo-Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen on Saturday, May 29, told President Uhuru Kenyatta that elected leaders don’t have to be his friends to be recipients of development.
Murkomen termed as “unfortunate” remarks by President Kenyatta during his meeting with Luo Nyanza leaders on Friday, where he urged them to “take advantage of the Handshake” to get development projects.
Kenyatta met the Luo Nyanza leaders at State House, Nairobi ahead of Madaraka Day celebrations to be held in Kisumu on Tuesday, June 1.
Murkomen said development projects initiated by the national government should be independent of political alignments.
“Why should development of any part of Kenya be dependent on personal relationships with the President?” the senator posed on Twitter on Saturday.
Murkomen said uncompleted development projects in Rift Valley are likely to be abandoned because of the tense relationship between President Kenyatta and his deputy, William Ruto.
“No wonder projects like Arror, Kimwarer, Itare, Bosto, Keben, Londiani Hospital have been killed,” he alleged.
The lawmaker urged President Kenyatta to meet leaders from all regions in the company of his deputy to symbolise that the Executive arm of government is united.
Since independence, areas perceived to be opposed to the government of the day have been starved of development.
This has led to uneven development across the regions with regions that have produced presidents more developed compared to regions that have not.
President Uhuru Kenyatta and Former Prime Minister Rt. Hon. Raila Odinga lead Kenyans in signing the BBI form during the National launch of the BBI signatures collection exercise at KICC in Nairobi County.
Even as the Court of Appeal hears the case against the determination of the five-judge Bench that paralysed the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill 2020, on May 13, Kenya is racing against time in its preparation for the next General Election.
Sustained focus on the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI), has however made it look as if the normal electoral processes and timelines were on hold.
The country could easily find itself in a time bind, if key players do not begin paying attention to the elections, separate from the amendment Bill.  
Both the Constitution and the Elections Laws (Amendment) Act 2017 expect that in less than 12 months’ time from now, the country will be on the final lap of electing a new President, the 13th Parliament, as well as County Government bosses and the assemblies. 
 It is possible this consideration has occasioned Catholic Bishops to call for a shift of focus from BBI to the General Election.
The Elections Laws (Amendment) Act 2017 requires that political parties shall nominate their candidates by May 9, 2022.
The systems must gather organised pace before close of this year, both at the IEBC and in political parties, if the country will have an orderly election in August next year. 
Section 13(1) of the amended law reads, “A political party shall nominate its candidates for an election under this Act at least ninety days before a General Election under this Act, in accordance with its nomination rules.” 
Because the next election falls on August 9, 2022, parties must hold their primaries by May 9 at the latest. This means they have 11 months to get their act together.
Among other things, this entails polishing up their membership registers and sprucing up nomination rules for submission of both to IEBC within the statutory timelines.
According to Section 28(a) of the Act, membership lists must be with IEBC at least 120 days before the election.
This places the last day of submitting the lists on March 19, next year. 
Nomination rules for party primaries, on the other hand, must be with IEBC six months before the election day, in line with Section 27 of the Act.
 The rules will, accordingly, be with the commission by February 9. 
It is a rat race for political parties to get their own houses in order, barring which they could find themselves locked out of the elections. 
Nomination rules not with IEBC by February 9 will not be recognised.
 That means the party will not field candidates, as there will be no basis. Parties will especially, note keenly that the courts are becoming very strict about processes, as the condemnation of the BBI process demonstrated. 
A political party that decides to amend its nomination rules will have to wait for 90 days to lapse, from the day when it submitted the amendments to IEBC, in line with Section 27(b) of the Act.
 The last day for amending party primary rules is, therefore, May 9, 2022. 
But the original rules will have been submitted on or before March 19. 
The advent of BBI, with the controversial political debates around it over the past three years, has skewed focus from statutory and constitutional political affairs to an extent that could push the next General Election into a tempest of a time rush, even for IEBC itself. 
Competitive, and often hostile, public debate within the political elite class has made it almost look like there can be no General Election before the conclusion of the BBI process.
Equally significant is what seems to be the assumption that if the BBI Bill is subjected to a national referendum, it will invariably sail through and everything else will follow.
Should the Bill be defeated at a referendum, it could throw the country into a spin, if the rest of the election timelines have not been followed. 
But success could also lead to a messy set up, for there is little time left to the fulfilment of statutory electoral requirements.
That could explain why some political gadflies have made muffled pronouncements about extending the life of the present parliament, to make room for any subsequent legislation from BBI and give enough room to prepare for the General Election.
In contemplating this, however, the political class may have to reckon with an outraged citizenry that could possibly be fatigued with the present regime, as usually happens when a regime’s tenure is ending.
In times of general economic and social hardship, the public tends to get a sense of relief from the thought that the government in power is about to give way to something new and probably more promising.
Kenya is experiencing such times, compounded by the fallout of the Covid-19 havoc.
Ordinarily, any proposed change of law does not stop institutions and processes from continuing to function in line with the existing law.
This is regardless that the changes, in the case of the Constitution, are proposed through a Parliamentary initiative or a popular initiative, according to Articles 255–257 of the Constitution of Kenya.
A proposed constitutional amendment does not create a vacuum in the law. Kenya is, therefore, not in a constitutional void, despite the fact that there is a proposal to amend the law, supported by President Uhuru Kenyatta and a powerful slew of the political class in the Opposition. 
The real danger for the country resides in the possibility of rushing to a chaotic General Election, the necessary orderly processes having been slowed down by overwhelming focus on BBI.
That BBI is itself presently stalled in court corridors is a damper on the process. Still, it stands a fifty-to-fifty chance of being resuscitated, as are all matters before the courts.
In the event that it survives the present setback, this would still not be adequate cause to slow down the electoral process.
For, the electoral process is protected by the Constitution and the various relevant Acts, with the Elections Laws (Amendment) Act 2017 ranking foremost in statutory law.
The recent jump starting of the process to populate the commission in line with the Constitution and the Act signals the hope that all is not lost.
For its part, the commission reports that it has developed the Elections Operations Plan (EOP) for the General Election, and the Boundaries Operations Plan (BOP). 
Both should be launched soon, according to commission sources. 
Procurement and mass voter registration activities are expected to be done “on budget availability.”
Continuous Voter Registration (CVR ) is said to be ongoing at constituency offices, all the time, except for where there are by-elections. 
Procurement of technology support is also said to be on-going. 
Finally, the first tranche of the 2022 General Elections budget is expected to be included in the 2021-2022 financial year budget, to be read in a few days from now.
Regardless, the commission has massive work ahead. It has not done any mass registration of voters, as it admits.
 Ahead of the 2017 elections, mass registration was done in 2014 and 2017, despite the existing provision for continuous registration.
The law requires that such registration should be done and that registers must be open for inspection, at least 90 days to the election day. 
Registers were a huge bone of contention in the 2017 election controversies between NASA leaders on the one hand and Jubilee Party and IEBC on the other.
The country could be headed the same way again. Likewise, procurement issues seem to be in a dark place.
 In 2017 IEBC faced a plethora of pre-election litigation regarding procurement.
It is instructive that the process then began in 2016, unlike today when it is not even clear when the process is set to begin.
 As soon as IEBC invited tenders through advertisements, it found itself in court, landed with 50 cases that challenged the stages of procurement. 
There was also legalistic wrestling with the of Public Procurement Advisory and Review Board over procurement.
The board cancelled the award of printing of ballot papers to Al-Ghurair Printing and Publishing Company of Dubai. 
The courts also cancelled further awards, at least twice.
 Repeat drama could be in the offing.
Meanwhile, NASA had a raft of 11 items dubbed “irreducible minimums.” 
They wanted them addressed before they could participate in repeat presidential poll of October 2017.
Some of the more critical concerns pertained to the ICT framework and its use at various stages, the manner of printing various forms and the details, as well as how they should be used and appointment of returning officers and, most important, result transmission. 
All these concerns point to the possibility of politically chaotic times ahead.
United Democratic Alliance (UDA) Secretary-General Veronica Maina has downplayed ongoing internal wrangles within the ‘hustlers movement’, saying it is nothing to worry about.
The feud pits the mainstream UDA against Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria-led Peoples Empowerment Party (PEP).
Speaking in Nakuru, Maina dismissed the infighting as ‘friendly fire’, saying the movement headed by Deputy President William Ruto allows members to differ on opinion.
“These (feuds) are bound to happen since UDA and other like-minded parties are attractive and one of the best political outfits being built today,” she said on the sidelines of a leadership and aspirants meeting.
Mr Muraya Githaiga, the new Rurii ward MCA in Nyandarua County taking an oath of office at the county assembly chambers during a special sitting
The leadership crisis at the Nyandarua County Assembly deepened on Friday after the acting clerk Elizabeth Muthui swore in newly elected Rurii Ward Representative, Muraya Githaiga.
The ceremony was conducted in a special sitting convened by Deputy Speaker Zakary Njeru.
The event came a few days after Speaker Ndegwa Wahome was barred from accessing the assembly, following his reinstatement by Justice Joel Ngugi a week ago.
In his maiden speech, Muraya said one of his priorities is the rehabilitation of roads. 
Politics took centre stage during the burial of a businessman in Nandi Hills, which was attended by ODM leader Raila Odinga's son, Raila Odinga Junior, and leaders allied to Deputy President William Ruto.
During the funeral of Mombasa-based businessman Gregory Kipruto Koech on Wednesday, politicians used the podium to send conciliatory messages, urging Raila Junior to prevail upon his father to form an alliance with Ruto ahead of the 2022 General Election.
Nandi Governor Stephen Sang, Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi and local MCAs recalled how the two leaders worked together during the 2007 elections where Ruto played a key role in the 'Pentagon', a political grouping that helped Raila clinch the PM position in the Grand Coalition government.
Sudi said it was high time Raila backed Ruto's ambition to take over power from President Uhuru Kenyatta next year.
“In 2008 Ruto campaigned for Raila and he became Prime Minister during President Kibaki's Grand Coalition government. Next year, we expect him to support the DP to become the next president,” he stated.
“When you (Raila Odinga Junior) go back, ask your dad to consider supporting DP Ruto's presidential aspiration as a way of paying back the support the community gave him in 2008,” he said.
Governor Sang said there was a high possibility that Ruto and Raila could still work together in a new political realignment.
While condoling with the family, Raila Junior urged youths to be innovative and invest in a business to get empowered. He also urged them to shun tribal politics.
“I have travelled all the way from Bondo to bury my friend and this shows how we are socially related despite our political affiliations. I want to tell young people to shun divisive politics. You can own land and do business anywhere in the country,” he said.
Deputy President William Ruto with speakers of the two Houses Justin Muturi and Ken Lusaka during the 18th Kenya National Prayer Breakfast at Parliament Buildings, Nairobi
calls for dialogue and national unity dominated the National Prayer Breakfast meeting that brought together President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto.
The leaders – with increasingly strained relationship – met in public for the first time since February.
Uhuru called on Kenyans to pull together for a prosperous country, while DP Ruto appealed for national dialogue to end political antagonism pitting proponents of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) and his Tangatanga camp.
The push to amend the 2010 Constitution has split the country into two rival camps, with Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga leading the BBI proponents, while DP Ruto and his allies are on the opposing side.
Addressing the 18th Annual National Prayer Breakfast co-hosted by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and his Senate counterpart Ken Lusaka, Uhuru called on Kenyans to unite in battling the Covid-19 pandemic.
He said it was only by coming together that the country will manage to achieve its agenda for growth.
“There is hope that it is possible to overcome if we pull together. One person cannot change Kenya, but together we will make a significant difference. I hope that those who are here and to all Kenyans who have had the opportunity to hear the teachings will live by them,” said Uhuru.
He also called on MPs to fast-track legislation on Universal Health Care to ensure access to healthcare to all Kenyans, admitting that a majority of the population cannot afford medical care.
“We have heard from the health experts, we have also heard from our senior (Senator Amos) Wako challenges of our people not able to access healthcare,” said Uhuru.
“To the speakers of both Houses, there are proposals before you that will ensure that all Kenyans have access to better health care; please expedite the pieces of legislation,” he said.
The controversial NHIF (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that seeks to compel Kenyans who have attained the age of 18 to enroll and contribute Sh6,000 annually to the National Health Insurance Fund are some of the Bills before the National Assembly.
Ruto said disruption of political activities by Covid-19 could be a sign of divine intervention for the country’s leadership to begin dialogue so as to end wrangles.
 “So many things have happened during this difficult period; the Tangatanga tours are not there and reggae has also stopped. I think we need to listen to what the Bishop was telling us,” said Ruto.
He recalled how ODM leader Raila Odinga in an “uncharacteristic manner” read a Bible verse that called on leaders to “come and reason together” during the last prayer meeting.
Muturi rallied leaders to unite for cohesive and peaceful country.
He said that the Covid-19 pandemic that has disrupted livelihoods was enough reason for the country to come together in dealing with the common enemies.
The Council of Governors (CoG) has stood with impeached Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi Mohamud as a tussle on the county’s leadership rages.
Mohamed yesterday attended a full CoG meeting in Nairobi. The newly sworn-in Governor Ahmed Ali Muktar was absent.
The embattled county boss also attended a press briefing led by CoG chairman Martin Wambora.
Muktar has already reshuffled the county’s cabinet, a move the CoG dismissed as ineffectual.
“Whoever did the appointments has already been annulled by the court,” said Wambora.
Mohamud downplayed the fight, saying the two are still playing the roles they did before the Senate removed him from office. 
“There are no two centres of power,” he said. “Both of us are accessing the offices but there is impunity on the side of the Executive who are reluctant to enforce law and order.” 
Wambora said the threshold to impeach Mohamud had not been met, blaming political forces. 
“The threshold must be weighty enough. It must be a serious violation of constitutional provisions, which was not the case. The Court of Appeal and possibly the Supreme Court will provide clarity,” he added.
The Kenya African National Union (KANU) party has revamped its operations ahead of next year's elections.
The Independence party has changed its Nairobi branch leadership and launched a digital membership registration and recruitment drive largely targeting women and youth.
Frank Mbogo was appointed city branch chairman and is expected to breathe new life into the party.
 Mbogo is also at the Pubs, Entertainment and Restaurants Association (PERAK) Nairobi branch.
In his maiden task, Mbogo reconstituted the Nairobi sub-branch offices and requested the officials to wait for further communication on restructuring.
"Kanu will for sure be in the next government and we have to be ready as a party. The changes were needed to comply with the party constitution and the political parties Act, 2011 on membership and party structures from the grassroots," said Mbogo.
He also called on other political players in the capital to get on the negotiating table with Kanu to ensure the Baringo Senator Gideon Moi-led party clinches majority of the elective positions next year.
"To all those looking for leadership slots in Nairobi from straight from MCA to Governor, join us and we are ready for negotiations because want to bring back the leadership of Nairobi to Kanu," said Mbogo.
He added: "I commit to forge a close relationship with the party leadership, including our national chairman, secretary general Nick Salat, national organising secretary, national treasurer as well as the national executive director George Wainaina and the entire secretariat."
We will penetrate and be felt in all corners of the city county.
Kanu youth leader Betty Adera said with less than 13 months to the General Election, the party had put in place mechanisms to extend its reach across the country and will train leaders seeking elective positions.
"The Nairobi office will also pursue business empowerment programmes for youth and women in consultation with the party secretariat and our strategic partners for opportunities not limited to grants, credit products and loan security especially to the small and medium enterprises. Together, we will define Nairobi's political landscape," she said.
Meanwhile, the party city leaders urged the court to rescind its decision declaring the Constitutional (Amendment) Bill, 2020 null and void.
Adera said: "While we respect the ruling by the court, we should not let the gains proposed for youth and women go down the drain."
Mbogo said they support national chairperson Gideon Moi on his stand for the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) Bill.
In the recent past, Gideon been rolling out a silent strategy to revamp the Independence party.
The senator has also been making forays into different parts of country including Coast, the Maa counties and Mount Kenya notably Kiambu, Embu, Nyeri and Tharaka Nithi where he has attended church services, public functions, and assembled local teams to revamp the party.
The Kanu chairman is also part of the “One Kenya Alliance” that brings together Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya).
Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party chairman John Mbadi has waded into the supremacy wrangles rocking the Nairobi County Assembly.
Mbadi has ordered the removal of seven MCAs involved in the ouster of minority whip Peter Imwatok during a special sitting last week.
In a letter to the assembly, he called on besieged Imwatok to take action against the seven for going against the party position and acting contrary to party instructions.
"As the party pursues avenues in resolving issues bedevilling the minority party in the assembly, you are hereby instructed to discharge the following members from all committees until such a time to be communicated by my office," read the letter in part dated May 26, 2021.
The seven members include Lower Savannah MCA Nicholas Okumu, named interim minority whip last week, Kennedy Oyugi (Highrise), Clarence Munga (Kabiro) and Fredrick Omondi (Kayole Central).
Others are MCA Jared Okode (Mathare North), Redson Otieno (Ngei) and Maurice Gari (Nairobi West).
The rebel MCAs have been accused of going against the Raila Odinga-led party and causing division in the assembly.
During a special sitting last week, they engineered the ouster of Imwatok in changes communicated by session speaker John Kamangu. 
They installed Lower Savannah MCA Nicholas Okumu as interim minority leader pending consultations with the party.
They had accused Imwatok of “tarnishing the image of the party by abusing his position for selfish gain.”
The development comes against the backdrop of another letter by ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna who castigated actions of the MCAs and change of leadership.
In a letter to Speaker Benson Mutura, Sifuna said the party had not sanctioned the changes and that he was conducting a probe into the actions of his members but requested that the status quo remains.
“Kindly note that the party has not made any changes to the leadership and the same did not originate from us,” Sifuna wrote.
This comes even as the rebel MCAs plan to amend the assembly standing orders to rob political parties of the power to appoint minority and majority leaders and bestow it unto themselves.
A letter by MCA Oyugi to the speaker revealed that there was a push to delete standing orders numbers 20 and 21.
The changes are aimed at making the process of removing a leader complex and also make it difficult for political parties to hold accountable members that go against the party position.
If effected, the changes will have MCAs chose their leaders and not seek the approval of their political parties.
The proposals have been sent to the Procedure and Rules committee.
Jubilee Party has announced that David Murathe has not resigned as party national vice-chairperson.
In a statement released on Wednesday, May 26 by party communication director Albert Memusi, the party termed false reports circulating on social media that Murathe had quit.
“It has come to our attention that there are reports circulating on social media alleging that our vice-chair, Murathe. We would like to clarify that such reports are false,” read the statement.
Memusi said Murathe was still the party’s able vice-chair and continues to carry out his duties in that capacity, working diligently to fulfil his mandate as provided for in the party constitution.
The party urged members of the public to treat any documents, reports or communication purporting to convey his resignation with the contempt they deserve.
Memusi said any changes in the Jubilee Party leadership will be communicated through the official Party organs, as is the norm, and as is articulated in the Jubilee Party Constitution.
The reports emerged after President Uhuru Kenyatta reportedly made a phone call to top jubilee officials including Murathe and read him the riot act over the party’s loss in the two recent by-elections held in the Mt Kenya region.
Leaders have also called for party’s leadership changes following the Juja constituency and Rurii Ward by-elections.
In Juja, Jubilee candidate Susan Waititu managed 5,764 votes, losing to People's Empowerment Party (PEP) candidate George Koimburi who garnered 12,159 votes.
In Rurii Ward, UDA candidate Francis Muraya beat Jubilee's Peter Thinji.
Murathe in January 2019 resigned his post as Jubilee Party vice-chairperson, saying he could not sit with Deputy President William Ruto in the party’s National Executive Council (NEC).
The surprise resignation came on a day some Jubilee MPs demanded he either withdraw his utterances against the DP or be ousted from the party’s top position.
In May 2020, Murathe made a U-turn about his resignation saying President Kenyatta did not accept his resignation letter.
 “I wrote a resignation letter to President [Kenyatta] but I have not received a response from the President indicating whether my intention was accepted or declined. This means that I’m still the party’s vice-chairperson and I will continue discharging my duties and responsibilities in the ruling party,” he said.
Nairobi County Assembly has approved a second Sh12 billion supplementary budget for pending bills and statutory payments.  
The funds will be utilised by both City Hall executive and the Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS) to settle debt obligations audited by the Auditor General's office.
In the first supplementary budget passed in April, Sh1.3 billion was set aside for the Major General Mohammed Badi-lead team to pay contractors and suppliers. 
County Assembly Budget and Appropriations Committee chairperson Robert Mbatia said the second supplementary budget was drafted based on the directive by President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure suppliers pay is not delayed.
“The second supplementary estimates of Sh12 billion will settle part of recurrent pending bills and amounts owed to development contractors,” said Mbatia.
Notably, Sh4.4 billion has been allocated towards settling Kenya Commercial Bank's (KCB) loan. 
Another Sh1.2 billion will pay Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) debt while Sh381 million has been allocated to NSSF.
Mbatia also said re-allocations had been made across various votes in line with the provisions of Section 135 and 154 of the Public Finance Management Act (PFM) 2012, to make resources available for the payments.
The changes saw NMS budget reduced from Sh23.2 billion to Sh11.2 billion. 
The committee further noted that the second supplementary budget was necessary to allow expenditure of the funds before the lapse of the current 2020/21 financial year on June 30.
“The committee and indeed the County Assembly has been a strong crusader of the need for county government and the latter–day brother, NMS, to prioritise settlement of pending bills to also bolster the county’s credit score, while also guaranteeing that those who do business or work with City County don’t regret the decision,” Mbatia added.
During debate, Kilimani MCA Moses Ogeto, however opposed the budget, saying committee had slashed NMS funds and this would hamper development.
“This is a skewed presentation and I have never seen such a budget estimate paper before. Denying NMS funds is unreasonable," said Ogeto. 
Majority leader Abdi Hassan however said the supplementary budget was in order given that it had been presented before the house from NMS via the executive.
Eastleigh North MCA Osman Adow said passage of the budget would ensure pending bills are paid and revive stalled projects. Roysambu MCA Peter Warutere said the funds will reduce the huge pending bills.
Impeached Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi Mohamud and newly sworn-in boss Ahmed Muktar.
The political tussle in Wajir County deepened after impeached Governor Mohamed Abdi Mohamud and newly sworn-in boss Ahmed Muktar both claimed to be in charge of the county government.
Muktar on Tuesday said he was legally in charge following the impeachment of his former boss – Mohamud – who separately claimed to be running the government, citing a High Court order stopping the swearing-in of the Deputy Governor.
But the order was reportedly issued after Muktar had already been sworn in.
Addressing a press conference in Nairobi, Muktar and a host of elected leaders from the county led by MPs Adan Keynan (Eldas), Rashid Kassim (Wajir East), Ahmed Bashane (Tarbaj), Prof Mohamud Sheikh (Wajir South) and Ahmed Kolosh (Wajir West) said the crisis was threatening tension in the region and appealed to Mohamud “to come on board as a citizen” and support the new team.
Keynan said it was clear that the court order was in vain as it was already overtaken by events.
But speaking separately at the Council of Governors’ offices in Nairobi on Tuesday, Mohamud termed his impeachment a violation of the law, citing a court ruling that barred the process and a subsequent one blocking the swearing-in of his deputy.
“The entire findings and resolutions of the Senate to remove me from office was rendered ineffective, inapplicable and non-operational. As such everything done pursuant to the resolution of the senate including the purported swearing in of the governor as the governor of Wajir has no effect,” he said.
He further said he was ready to work with the newly sworn-in governor, saying he harboured no ill-feelings towards him or the county assembly.
“To my deputy governor, I know you as a humble person who has never shown any ill-intentions all along. I reaffirm that our relationship will remain the same as we continue to serve the great people of Wajir as mandated by law,” said Mohamud.
The beleaguered county boss said he was perturbed by the behaviour of some politicians who hurriedly conducted and officiated an illegal swearing-in ceremony in an attempt to remove a popularly elected governor from office.
Mohamud blamed his ouster on 2022 politics by a section of leaders, terming them “coup De’ tat tactics and maneuvers” citing an election petition against him in 2017 as the start of his woes.
“This proves that my purported removal was well-engineered from the beginning,” added Mohamud.
The latest tussle comes in the backdrop of a decision by the High Court in Meru to refer the petition that sought to nullify the impeachment of the embattled politician to Chief Justice Martha Koome to form a three-judge bench to determine the matter.
"It is hereby directed that the matter be heard by more than one judge ….it shall henceforth be dealt with after the Chief Justice exercises mandate under articles 165(4) of the Constitution", states the order issued on Monday.
Tuesday, Keynan fell short of blaming the High Court for issuing orders that cannot be enforced for being overtaken.
 “Courts have held again and again that it cannot stultify itself by making orders which cannot be enforced or grant an injunction which will be ineffective for practical purposes… the court should have declined to grant it,” said Keynan.
“It was thus clear, that the applicants in the above-mentioned case failed to inform the court, or withheld material information that as of the time the orders were being sought, Governor Ahmed Ali Muktar had been sworn in and assumed office,” he added.
Muktar said his former boss was removed from office due to his inability to offer services to the people.
He said the removal was not politically engineered as claimed by the impeached county boss.
“There have been many serious issues in Wajir. Hospitals were closed, health workers were not at work. The people of Wajir faced some very small issues that any county government can handle. Ours now is to work on them and ensure they don’t happen again," Muktar said.
The pro-Muktar team also cautioned the CoG against frustrating the will of the people of Wajir who made the decision to remove their governor from office.
There was drama at the venue of the governor’s press briefing when police wielding clubs and teargas canisters tried to eject the media from the Delta Towers premises to prevent them from covering the event.
An officer who only identified himself as a chief inspector did not offer explanations as to why the press was almost chased out. 
The assumption of office of Chief Justice Martha Koome has completed the triumvirate leadership of the three arms of government; the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary raising concerns about regional balance and the face of Kenya in running the country.
Often viewed as a taboo topic, ethnic balkanisation for political gain remains Kenya’s biggest bane.
Political exclusion and subsequent marginalisation have been attributed to past election disputes and are the substratum of fragile stability.
One key requirement of the 2010 Constitution is for the President to table a report before Parliament yearly, on three issues during his State of the Nation Address is regional balance.
According to Article 132 on the functions of the President, he is obligated to address a special sitting of Parliament annually.
He is required to table: “report on all the measures taken and the progress achieved in the realisation of the national values, referred to in Article 10, publish in the Gazette the details of the measures and progress made and submit a report for debate to the National Assembly on the progress made in fulfilling the international obligations of the Republic.”
The furore of having President Kenyatta, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and the latest Justice Koome coming from one region as opposed to having the seats spread over the seven other regions captures according to some elected leaders, the source of Kenya's ethnic problem.
By law, Muturi, who was last week crowned as the Mt Kenya spokesperson, is third in the pecking order and would act as President in the absence of the President and the Deputy President.
Alongside Uhuru, Muturi, National Assembly Majority Leader Amos Kimunya, Koome, Chief of Defence Forces Robert Kibochi and Attorney General Kihara Kariuki are also from Mt Kenya. 
From the interviews to the debate in the Senate and the National Assembly, the question of ethnic balance across the arms of government came out strongly.
“Does it bother your conscience that if you are recommended by this committee, approved by Parliament and appointed, then all the three organs of government in our great republic will be headed by persons from the same region, commonly known as the ‘mountain’?” posed Kisumu West lawmaker Olago Aluoch.
Supreme Court Justice William Ouko, during his interview for the position of Supreme Court Judge by the Judicial Service Commission (JSC), pronounced himself on the matter frankly.
“I really have no prescription, what I can say is that we are very deeply tribal even in this commission. I want to leave it at that,” said Ouko, who has been sworn in.
The commission has four of its eleven members coming from Mt Kenya. 
They are AG Kihara, Patrick Gichohi, Macharia Njeru and Olive Mugenda. 
Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala caused a spectacle in the Senate when he listed top leaders holding various posts in the three arms of government, rattling Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi.
“I hope the BBI document will sort [out] the mess in the Public service. Facts are facts. Kindly Senator Wamatangi, today evening when you're free, ask yourself who is the head of the Executive, Judiciary, Parliamentary Service Commission (PSC) Speaker (National Assembly), CDF boss, Governor of CBK, Attorney General, Solicitor General, Kenyan Ambassador to the United States, Chair KRA, Director-General KRA, DCI, head of civil servants, state House Comptroller. Where is equity here,” posed Malala.
He argued, “We cannot lie to ourselves. Ask yourself that question and you will come to the reality that there is marginalisation in this country. Security recruitment across the country, there has never been a Wanyonyi, Wafula or Walubengo as Inspector General of Police (IG).”
Said Malala: “Is it that there are certain people from certain regions that are more qualified than others. It is a shame. Let us not use BBI to hoodwink some of us to pass it and go back to the normal practice. I want to see a day when a maize farmer in Kakamega is treated the same way as a coffee or potato farmer in Kirinyaga.”
Senators Wamatangi and Ephraim Maina (Nyeri) could not let the matter fly, arguing that even Mt Kenya has suffered, including the colonial times. “Let’s not mislead this country by creating preferred or preferential treatment to some areas,” said Wamatangi.
When debating Clause 11 (A) in the BBI in the economy and shared prosperity, Senate Minority Leader James Orengo led colleagues Senators Malala, Moses Wetangula (Bungoma), Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (Makueni), Johnstone Sakaja (Nairobi) in calling for a more exclusivity public service.
“Of the last two months’ appointments made, I don’t know if we are going in the right direction. Every institution should reflect the face of Kenya whether Judiciary, public service or the security system. Our objective is to ensure the enabling provision call for the face of Kenya, which is fair than we have had,” said Orengo.
“The report by the Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA) tabled in the House show a large portion of Kenya is red and a small portion is green. There is a verse in the Bible, those who have will get more, those who have little, it shall be taken. This is the true story of Kenya,” Kilonzo Jnr said.
He said there was unfair distribution, with Mt Kenya getting a lion’s share.
“It's a fact that there is 2,500km of tarmac roads in Kiambu while Kakamega only has 750km of tarmac,” he said.
Wetangula said they should not let facts be swept under the carpet and urged Maina and Wamatangi not to contradict the president and purport to support him at the same time.
“Uhuru and Raila sat and acknowledge the challenge of marginalisation, unequal development, unequal opportunity in Kenya and many other historical wrongs. When we live a lie, when we live in denial, we will not solve our problems,” he said.
Wetangula said it’s a fact there are those with comparative advantage. 
“Cowards will always whistle in the dark hoping to scare away people. The inequality we keeping crying about is real,” he added.
Nakuru Town West MP Samuel Arama has dismissed his colleagues' plan to impeach Interior Cabinet Secretary Dr Fred Matiang’i later this week in the National Assembly.
Speaking after issuing bursary cheques worth Sh11.2 million to his constituents, Arama said that such a motion would be dead on arrival, citing that there are no sufficient grounds to oust the CS.
“I am surprised that my colleagues have hatched a plan to impeach Matiang’i over some flimsy grounds. They have forgotten an impeachment must meet a constitutional threshold,” said Arama.
The MP said that a majority of those crying foul after years of cordial relationship with the CS had been denied opportunity to further their personal agenda.
“One of the MPs crying foul wanted the CS to allow him use the police to undermine other leaders. Matiang’i told him off and he has now turned against him,” said Arama.
The second term lawmaker pointed out that the appointing authority was confident in the way the CS performed his roles and was going for an even greater seat in 2022.
He accused those complaining over the Bonchari mini-polls of attempting to spark a revolt against Matiang’i in his own backyard.
“The President is not complaining about him. Bonchari people are not complaining. It is only a few outsider MPs who went there with a motive to paint a bad image about the CS. Matiang’i will be on the presidential ballot in 2022 and they won’t stop him,” said Arama.
He called on the leaders to instead respect the current leadership and the law to be on the right side without brushing police the wrong way.
“These are the same people who have since 2017 been hurling insults at President Uhuru Kenyatta. They seek attention by going where they know there will be a controversy,” he said.
MPs Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri town) on May 21 intimated that there was a plan to impeach the CS whom he accused of being rogue.
“There is this one Cabinet Secretary who somehow thinks he’s untouchable. We get insulted here every day as we protect the government he works for, then he thinks he can run over us the way he runs over everyone else,” Wambugu wrote on Facebook.
Ngunjiri who is associated with Kieleweke faction of the Jubilee Party, said they would join forces with Tangatanga faction and ODM to ensure the CS is voted out.
His sentiments came barely two days after Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi announced the same plan on May 19, accusing the CS of abusing the police service and disobeying court orders in the past.
“In all the by-elections that we have held in this country, Matiang'í has been sending thousands of police officers because he wants his preferred candidate to win. We shall impeach him in the next two weeks," said Sudi.
The Tangatanga faction has since their fallout with the Kieleweke faction cried foul over what they termed as selective discrimination by the police during mini-polls in Nakuru and Bonchari.
Ex-Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi now terms his removal as malicious
Former Wajir Governor Mohamud Abdi during his impeachment debate at Senate chambers, Nairobi.
A cat and mouse game is playing out in Wajir County.
Former Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi has now claimed that his impeachment was “well-planned”, terming it a political witch-hunt.
In a televised address on Tuesday, Abdi, pointed an accusatory finger at some leaders in Wajir County who, he said, engineered his removal from office.
“I’m perturbed by the behaviour of some Wajir leaders who orchestrated an illegal swearing-in to remove a serving governor from office,” he said.
Abdi decried disobedience of court orders, given that the High Court had barred the County Assembly and the Senate from impeaching him until a petition he had filed was heard and determined.
The former governor had challenged his removal from office, a day after Senate upheld his impeachment.
“The resolution by the Senate was rendered ineffective and inapplicable. As such, anything done in pursuit to that resolution on May 17, 2021, including the swearing-in of Wajir Deputy Governor, has no effect,” he said on Tuesday.
He also quoted last week’s orders by the Meru High Court stopping the swearing-in of newly appointed Governor Muktar Ali, which stated that he (Abdi) shall continue to be in office until his petition is heard and determined.
His statement came just hours after Wajir leaders rallied behind Governor Muktar in a press conference, affirming their support.
“Governor Muktar is now firmly in office. Any order purportedly issued by the High Court blocking his assumption to office was overtaken by events,” said MP Adan Keynan.
Last week, Abdi received support from the Council of Governors, who expressed discontentment in the manner in which his impeachment was conducted.
"The Senate has failed to set standards on what amounts to gross violation of the Constitution. For example, in the Kirinyaga case, the Senate acquitted the governor charged with similar violations,” CoG Chairman Martin Wambora stated.
But even as leadership wrangles rear their ugly head in Wajir, the impeached governor says he has no resentment towards Muktar, and reaffirms that their relationship “will remain the same”.
Nyamira County assembly is staring at another row after Governor Amos Nyaribo resubmitted the name of James Gesami for approval as his deputy.
The assembly rejected Gesami in January with 21 voting against the nomination and only 15 supporting.
And as the Assembly resumes sittings on June 6, it is not clear whether the MCAs will approve this time.
Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party had on April 12written to Nyaribo to nominate lawyer Charles Rigoro as his deputy in what was termed as an understanding between the party and the governor.
“Please communicate the position to all members of the majority party and ensure the party’s interests are secured,” the letter read.
The assembly is also yet to debate and approve Clive Ogwora, nominee for County Executive for Environment.
The delay in considering Ongwora has also become another source of conflict between Nyaribo, Speaker Moffat Teya and some MCAs.
Teya wrote to Nyaribo on May 13 explaining why he should reconsider his decision to withdraw Ogwora’s name.
Nyaribo had stated a few months ago that “I have already made up my mind and I have identified another candidate for appointment.”
Nairobi lawyer and Raila Odinga’s staunch supporter Donald Kipkorir has announced that he will take an extended break from politics.
In a Twitter post on Monday, May 24, Kipkorir, while making the announcement, challenged Kenyan leaders to love the country above self, family and tribe as a precursor for developing a mature political system.
“On reflection, I have taken a sabbatical from Kenya’s politics which has no higher ideals, but driven at its default by personal interests with the support of the poor and illiterate bases,” noted Korir.
US-based law professor and columnist Makau Mutua, however, cautioned the lawyer against taking the decision, saying it might erode the gains made in trying to sanitise Kenya’s politics.
He said the lawyer’s decision was like leaving a football pitch in the dying minutes, just when his team was leading.
Prof Makau pleaded with Korir not to lose hope in Kenya’s politics saying that things will soon change for the better.
“You are a striker and can’t take a “sabbatical” from the game at the 80th minute with your team leading 2-1. If you do, the other side’s mediocre 11 will beat your 10-man team,” said Prof Mutua.
Kipkorir maintained that his decision to take a sabbatical was cast on stone, arguing that the political arena was infested with deceitful individuals, and that he was no longer on being part of the confusion.
On his part, city lawyer Ahmednasir Abdullahi challenged the lawyer to disclose the real reason behind his sudden change of heart.
He alleged that Kipkorir was opting out of politics after realising that the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) and his preferred presidential candidate for the 2022 polls were headed nowhere.
 “Have you lost faith in the project? Did you realise the project is doomed? Have you realised that your candidate has zero chance? Is your candidate even running for office? You saw the light,” said Ahmednasir.
Kipkorir’s decision to take a break comes as President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila prepare to appeal the High Court ruling that annulled the BBI.
The President and the ODM leader formed a legal team of six lawyers, led by Attorney General Paul Kihara to try to dismantle the ruling by the High Court judges and allow the BBI reggae to stay on.
In the team to resuscitate the BBI are Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto, former BBI joint secretary Paul Mwanga, members of the BBI committee of experts Prof Ben Sihanya, Prof Kibe Mungai and city lawyer Jackson Awele.
Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi has stepped up charm offensive of the vote-rich Mt Kenya region.
Mudavadi held a series of meetings with leaders, raising speculation over his political game plan in the succession race of President Uhuru Kenyatta.
The ANC leader convened a stakeholders’ meeting with a host of former lawmakers from the region led by Former Members of Parliament Association chairman Humphrey Njuguna (former Gatanga MP) and ex-Gachoka MP Mutava Musyimi, at Sagana Getaway Resort on Friday.
Mudavadi said his engagements with the leaders revolved around the economic mainstay of the region and programmes that can support the people.
He described the region as pivotal for his 2022 presidential bid and was pulling all the strings to reach out to voters.
“Mt Kenya axis is extremely pivotal and critical in Kenya’s political landscape. The population there is huge, they are powerful voters, they come in large numbers when it is time to vote if they believe in the candidacy of the person they want to push through,” said Mudavadi.
“Going into 2022, it is a region that must be taken very seriously, and that is what I am doing as the ANC candidate,” he added in an interview.
He revealed that he wants to focus on discussions with people to identify their problems before engaging various stakeholders on possible solutions.
“Critical issues of Mt Kenya will always revolve first and foremost matters of the economy; they have a lot of entrepreneurship issues, they are very sensitive about their agriculture, coffee, tea, milk," noted Mudavadi.
"So when you engage them it is done on the basis that assurance is being given that you will pursue policies and programmes that will be supportive to this economic agenda. These are issues that one has to engage them on and develop approaches together," he added.
He, however, said that he will prioritise stakeholder engagement rather than working with the perceived regional kingpins.
“We have reached a stage where you talk more of stakeholder’s engagement rather than individuals or what you call kingpin-based approach; people now want to know what you are doing for the agricultural sector, transport, policy on taxation among other areas,” he explained.
Recently, Mudavadi toured Kieni constituency where he was hosted by area MP Kanini Kega.
He has lined up a series of political engagements in the coming days to solidify support.
The ANC leader noted that there was a growing impatience amongst the youth due to unemployment and prohibitive tax regimes that have frustrated their efforts to do business or get jobs.
“We do not know what they are thinking of and what they will eventually do when they get angry at us. They have become rebellious and we need to seek solutions amongst us leaders. This younger generation is not a happy lot," said Mudavadi.
Mr Kega described Mudavadi as a friend to Nyeri people saying that the Mt Kenya region was open to negotiation with everybody.
He said the voters will back the presidential candidate with the best offer for the region.
“We are very accommodative people; we want as many bridegrooms before we can settle on one that will take good care of our people,” said Kega.
“We are open for negotiation with everybody, unlike the Tangatanga who have already committed themselves to Ruto. Mudavadi has been our friend, but the point is that we are open for anybody with the best offer for our people,” added the MP.
Njuguna said talks with the ANC leader revolved around the way forward for the region and the country.
He noted that the region was open to negotiations with politicians seeking the presidency.
“Mudavadi has asked for our support and we shall continue with this conversation because we think Mudavadi is a leader worth engaging. And as a region we think we should consider him among other leaders because we believe Mt Kenya is going to play a major role in the 2022 succession politics,” he said.
Similar views were shared by Musyimi, who said that they will continue with such candidate engagements in preparations for the next General Election.
“We have followed your story and your convictions, the things you have done in government and even as a profession in the lands sector, and we feel very proud to be associated with you," said the lawmakers.
The former MP, "We are grateful for the candid conversations we have had, sometimes candid conversations are usually rough but as long as they are honest from the heart and they reflect the concerns and constraints of our people across board then they become very helpful."
Former Ndia MP Stephen Ngare said that leaders seeking the support of the region have to spell out their agenda for the coffee industry.
He said the sector was completely down with value addition, adding that farmers feel the government has let them down.
Others in the meeting were former Murangá deputy governor Gakure Monyo, former MPs Esther Murugi, John Kihagi and Kamande Mwangi.
Mudavadi was accompanied by Senators Johnson Sakaja (Nairobi) and Cleophas Malalah (Kakamega) and ANC Party Chairman Kelvin Lunani.
ODM leader Raila Odinga is in Kisumu County today (Monday) as he seeks to put his house in order ahead of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s visit to the region in a week’s time.
The two leaders are expected to unveil several handshake projects when Kisumu hosts this year’s Madaraka Day celebrations on June 1.
The move is part of the efforts he has put in place to ensure that the President does not walk into a hostile crowd following claims of betrayal over the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) process that has run into a brick wall.
The Standard has established that the ODM chief is hoping to calm the sense of disquiet in his ODM party and backyard over the stalled BBI process.
The ODM chief will meet ODM leaders from the region in a meeting that is meant to resolve some of the woes that have rocked the Orange party in the recent past.
A number of ODM officials told The Standard that they have been invited to the meeting in one of the hotels in Kisumu.
Although the agenda of the meeting has been kept a closely-guarded secret, sources told The Standard that unity of the party, preparations for Madaraka Day celebrations and the 2022 succession quest, tops the list of issues the ODM chief wants to discuss.
But it is the crack in the ODM party that risks publicly embarrassing the ODM chief should local politics and supremacy battles within his own party play out during the national celebrations.
In the last couple of days, Raila’s main foot soldiers including Senate Minority Leader James Orengo, Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo, party chairman John Mbadi and ODM’s Director of Elections Junet Mohamed have been engaged in a war of words.
Some of Raila’s key lieutenants such as Orengo will be expected to deliver speeches during the national celebrations.
“It is important for us to ensure that we prepare for the event. Even if we have our own differences, we should not wash our dirty linen before our visitors,” said a senior ODM official.
And it is those differences that the ODM chief wants to address before the national event even as they begin preparations for next year’s General Election.
At the weekend, signs that the disagreements in Raila’s camp are far from over played out after Orengo launched fresh attacks on his critics within the ODM camp.
Orengo, who is said to be among lawyers approached by Raila to challenge the stoppage of the BBI initiative by the High Court, said leaders only turned to him "when things are thick".
The Siaya Senator has been at loggerheads with some ODM top brass over the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020.
He voted in favour of the Bill.
Orengo claimed some ODM leaders were riding on the party successes without knowing how they came about.
 "When the party is in turmoil, everyone looks for me asking for my whereabouts, but during the other days, they undermine my capability," said Orengo.
He told his critics to focus on helping Raila clinch the presidency.
 "It does not matter what we all want now, our focus should be on the presidency... Ambitions can appear easy but getting what one wants is never easy."
A cold relationship between other Raila’s foot soldiers who are having ambitions for similar political seats in the region also risks splitting the party.
There are fears that some of the politicians may ferry goons to boo their opponents during the national celebrations, like was the case when Raila convened a meeting early this year in an attempt to rally his troops for the BBI process.
During the meeting at Ciala Resort, a section of the attendees booed Mbadi. And this is what some ODM insiders fear could play out, should the leaders fail to come together before the national event.
Yesterday, Raila snaked his way to his Riat home with a lean motorcade, evading journalists, with sources saying that he has planned a series of activities in Kisumu this week.
Despite the woes in the ODM party, Raila is optimistic that the several projects that have been undertaken that the president will unveil will breathe life to the region’s economy.
Yesterday, contractors tasked with delivering some of the projects were still racing against time to complete the word ahead of the national celebrations.
The facilities include a road project leading to the Sh350 million Jomo Kenyatta Sports ground, which will host the event. Others are the rehabilitated Sh3 billion port.
The revival of the Kisumu-Nakuru meter gauge railway line is among those that the President is expected to unveil after Kenya Railways workers completed its rehabilitation. 
The entity says only a few components of the project are still remaining.
Last week, the institution moved a passenger train to Kisumu in anticipation of the developments set to take place on Madaraka Day.
Aboard the train was the corporation’s Managing Director Philip Mainga and a team of engineers who undertook an inspection tour of the line.
The authority is also racing against time to complete the construction of a new passenger terminal in Kisumu.
According to Kenya Railways, the construction currently stands at 35 per cent.
Moses Kuria’s People's Empowerment Party pulls out of Kiambaa by-election after talks with William Ruto
Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria’s People's Empowerment Party (PEP) has pulled out of the Kiambaa parliamentary by-election.
The move is expected to avert a bitter fallout within Deputy President William Ruto’s camp.
In a Facebook post, Kuria disclosed that he made the decision following a meeting with the DP Ruto on Sunday.
The PEP party had settled on Raymond Kuria to face off with United Democratic Alliance (UDA) candidate John Njuguna Wanjiku in what threatened to split the Hustler nation.
“PEP's message of hope and renewal was endorsed by the voters of Gaturi ward in Murang'a on December 15, 2020, and Juja constituency on May 18, 2021.  We wanted to present this message for approval by the people of Kiambaa constituency on the July 15 [by-election],” said Kuria.
However, this did not go down well with my colleagues, particularly [Mathira MP] Rigathi Gachagua and [Kikuyu MP] Kimani Ichungwa. 
Yesterday I held extensive discussions with my boss and friend Dr William Ruto on this matter. 
Kuria went on, “I take this opportunity to offer my profuse apologies to the people of Kiambaa and all PEP members who undoubtedly will be disappointed with this decision."
To make my two colleagues happy and above all for the unity of the Hustler nation, PEP will not be fielding a candidate for the Kiambaa by-election.
There is a perceived simmering supremacy battle in the Tanga Tanga camp as MPs from Mt Kenya allied to the DP jostle to be in Ruto’s inner circle based on their perceived influence of the region.
Kuria said PEP is a member and stakeholder in the Hustler nation alongside Johnson Muthama-led UDA, Mwangi Kiunjuri-led The Service Party (TSP) as well as the Omingo Magara-led People's Democratic Party (PDP).
The lawmaker said the party decided to shift its focus to a nationwide tour to meet possible candidates for the 2022 General Election.  
The seat fell vacant following the death of MP Paul Koinange on March 31.
He is said to have died of Covid-19 complications at the Nairobi Hospital.
Until his death, Koinange served as the Chairperson of the National Assembly Administration and Security Committee.
Attorney General Paul Kihara Kariuki during the launch of State of the Judiciary Annual Report (SOJAR) , January 23, 2020
When the Court of Appeal sits to hear the cases filed by President Uhuru Kenyatta, ODM leader Raila Odinga, Attorney General Kihara Kariuki and the electoral commission, seven issues stand out.
If the court is to allow the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) juggernaut back on the rails, the judges will first be determining whether the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) had quorum to verify the signatures submitted by the BBI proponents.
This question transverses the appeals filed by both the IEBC and AG.
The commission argues that the question on whether two or five commissioners can legally run the institution was determined by another court and could not be reopened.
On one hand, IEBC argues that in the first case, determined by Justice Wilfrida Okwany, the minimum commissioners vary.
Meanwhile, High Court Judges Joel Ngugi, George Odunga, Chacha Mwita, Teresiah Matheka and Jairus Ngaah held that the commission should have five commissioners.
It faults the five judges, arguing that the section they relied on to find that IEBC had no quorum was earlier on declared unconstitutional by a separate court.
“The learned judges of the Superior Court erred in law in finding that IEBC lacks the requisite quorum for purposes of carrying out its constitutional and statutory mandate yet paragraphs five and seven of the Second Schedule to the IEBC Act, upon which the finding was premised on had been declared unconstitutional by a judge of equal jurisdiction,” IEBC appeal papers read.
“A contrary finding on the issue of quorum had been arrived at by another judge of concurrent jurisdiction.”
On quorum, the AG argues that the High Court went beyond what had been asked and in turn, the IEBC has been rendered useless as it can no longer operate.
His contention is that the commission cannot even conduct voter registration and which it was faulted of not doing in preparation of a referendum.
“The orders issued by the High Court were so extensive and revolutionary that they go to the very foundation of the Constitution. They were beyond the matters that were before the court,” Solicitor General Ken Ogeto argues.
Another issue which the court is being asked to determine is whether the court erred by reversing an exercise which involved a consultative process including the Judiciary.
According to the AG, the court illegally placed itself at the centre of the Constitution-making process.
He argues that means each time Kenyans want to amend the Constitution, they will have to get back to the court to ask it which parts to amend and which ones to leave.
In effect, the learned judges decreed that whenever the people desired amendments to the Constitution, it would be imperative to seek the guidance of the court in advance to determine the changes that are, or are not amendable.
"This risks transforming courts into policymakers, thereby usurping the people’s freedom to determine the terms of the social contract and how they wish to change those terms,” he continues.
The AG is also contesting the court’s decision on the involvement of President Kenyatta in the BBI process.
He argues that owing to perennial polls battles, three million Kenyans who signed on the document, majority county assemblies and the two Houses of Parliament ratified the president and ODM’s plan to end the violence and marginalisation.
“The above process is geared towards national reconciliation which constitutes a legitimate national political process. The process is supposed to pre-empt perennial election-related violence and marginalisation and it’s imperative that it be concluded before the next general election,” the court papers also read.
He argues that President Kenyatta cannot be faulted for promoting peace. According to him, the finding by the High Court that he had breached Chapter Six of the Constitution is not supported by evidence.
The other issue is whether the Constitution has clauses that cannot be amended.
On this, he accuses them of skewed, slanted, incomplete and erroneous reading of available academic work on the subject and of Kenya’s constitutional history and the making of the Constitution of 2010.
Senate Minority Leader James Orengo has hit out at his critics in the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM), saying they only seek his help during crisis.
Orengo, who is said to be among lawyers approached by ODM leader Raila Odinga to challenge the stoppage of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) initiative by the High Court, said leaders only turned to him "when things are thick".
The Siaya Senator has been at loggerheads with some ODM top brass over the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020. He voted in favour of the Bill.
He has been a key strategist of Raila and was his lawyer during presidential election petitions.
However, succession politics in ODM and the fight for political positions in Nyanza in 2022, are said to have caused a wedge.
On Saturday, Orengo who spoke during a burial of former South East Alego MCA Joshua Osuri in Alego Usonga sub-county in Siaya, accused unnamed politicians in ODM of abandoning the party leader Raila, during his times of need or crisis moments.
Orengo claimed some ODM leaders were riding on the party successes without knowing how they came about. 
When the party is in turmoil everyone looks for me asking for my whereabouts, but during other days they undermine my capability, said Orengo.
"I remember after 2017 General Election during the swearing in of Raila at Uhuru Park only a handful of us were at the forefront. I can only recall our 'chief justice' that day Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang. When we want people who are strong and can fight for the party they are nowhere to be seen," he said.
He told his critics to focus on delivering the presidency to Raila.
He added: "Even just fighting for devolution was not a walk in the park."
He asked all Kenyans to prepare for a referendum before the year ends.
ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna asked cabinet secretaries with 2022 political ambitions to resign.
Referring to the recent Bonchari by-election, he accused unnamed CSs of using their powers to frustrate the 'handshake' and the ODM party.
Deputy President William Ruto (left) confers with Kilifi North MP Owen Baya (center) and former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar Sarai during a retreat with Coast leaders and professionals at the Sun N Sand Hotel in Kilifi County.
Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday launched a broadside against the government's borrowing plan, saying the ballooning foreign debt was a threat to the nation.
Speaking after a two-day retreat with Coast leaders and professionals, Dr Ruto said if elected president, he would reduce the country’s debt burden.
“Instead of borrowing, we will enhance and expand our savings. Borrowing is threatening our nation,” said Ruto after receiving an 18-point economic blueprint from coastal leaders.
The DP did not say how his administration would finance the multi-billion shilling projects in the blueprint. He, however, promised to sign a charter with the Coast on the agreed plan.
In his new political plan targeting regional blocs, Ruto said he would negotiate with people in former eight provinces and develop plans to unshackle the nation from chains of poverty.
He said Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok would coordinate all the “hustle nation activities.”
After the Coast, the DP is scheduled to meet leaders from Nairobi before heading to Western.
“We must establish a charter. I’m ready to sign a charter with the people of Coast on what needs to be delivered during my administration,” declared Ruto in Kilifi.
Yesterday, a section of Coast leaders tabled 18-wish list of demands they said would form the basis of the charter or covenant between the region and the DP.
The economic plan dubbed, The Coast Regeneration Plan, touch on revival of collapsed factories, blue economy, value-additions, special economic zones, tourism and agriculture.
"These big issues were broken into 18," said former Kisauni MP Ananiah Mwaboza who once served as constitutional advisor to the office of the deputy president. 
The plan appeared to borrow heavily from the 2030 economic blueprint developed by Jumuiya ya Kaunti za Pwani in 2015.
Ruto said it would be subjected to public participation.
Former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar said the Coast would support Ruto's presidential ambitions on certain terms which he has committed to meet.
"We will cascade it down to villages. It will be a people's plan. We are happy tha the DP wants to become president on certain terms. In the last three days, we have come up with the plan for the Coast," said Omar.
Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa said Coast people would organise how to be part of the team that provide solutions for problems facing the region.
"We want partnership. We will partner with you and see whether you will met all our demands and if you do so, we will be with you all the way," said Jumwa.
Lunga Lunga MP Khatib Mwashetani said the economic plan presented to the DP was work in progress, addding that it had left out key areas like ports and harbours.
"I did not hear anything about the Shimoni Port, which is what the people of Kwale want. I hope the DP will implement it once he is elected," said Mwashetani.
The DP said the economic plan was not final as it would be subjected to public participation.
“A lot of input must come from the people. The plan will be taken to the wards and villagers because it is about them and not us politicians,” said Ruto, who met 12 elected MPs from Coast.
Others present during the meeting in Kilifi were a section former MPs and professionals. Conspicuously absent from the process was Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya.
None of the other five governors from the Coast attended the retreat.
Governors have cried foul over increased impeachment motions against them by Members of the County Assemblies and upheld by the Senate, even as they called for fair trial.
The Council of Governors (CoG) also lamented over the threshold of impeaching governors, saying that oversight bodies had watered it down.
In a statement read by CoG vice-chairperson James Ongwae, the governors said they would seek to establish the right threshold for impeaching county bosses.
They said the threshold of removing other holders of public office such as MPs and those of the County Assembly was seemingly higher than that of governors.
“The threshold for the impeachment of governors is becoming lower. We are getting into situations where procedural and administrative duties that don’t fall under the governor are actually impeachable,” he said.
The current process, they claimed, is political and had turned governors into victims of their respective county assemblies and the Senate.
Oversight bodies must remain cognizant of the legal principles surrounding impeachment so that the exercise is not abused, said the Kisii governor.
They said they would seek to be enjoined in the case by former Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi Mohamud challenging his removal.
Yesterday, it also emerged that Mohamud and the sworn-in Governor Ahmed Ali Muktar addressed the extraordinary CoG meeting separately and gave their account of happenings in the county.
While Muktar joined the meeting virtually, Mohamud was physically present at CoG headquarters at Delta House, Nairobi.
 Both were then excused to allow the council members to deliberate on the matter as each argued that they were legally in office, one through a court order and the other through a gazette notice by Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka, after a successful impeachment process. 
The Sunday Standard has learnt that the county bosses will move to court this week to seek an interpretation on what happens as well as the threshold for impeaching governors.
While protesting what they termed a worrisome trend, the CoG cited the impeachment of former governors Mike Sonko (Nairobi) and Ferdinand Waititu (Kiambu) as other instances where governors have seemingly been persecuted.
"While we appreciate the fact that impeachment is both legal and a political process, the rule of law should prevail while undertaking the same," said Ongwae.
He disclosed, “The council shall engage relevant institutions with a view to streamlining court pronouncements with the law so that the impeachment process can be anchored in legitimacy and impartiality."
The county chiefs underscored the need for all bodies involved to be guided by the Constitution and principles laid down by the courts on the threshold of impeachment.
The governors claimed MCAs have turned into 'lynch mobs' and sent three governors home, while one survived as other mooted the same, just this year.
"The council assures the public that it values integrity and accountability in the running of public affairs in the counties. Nevertheless, oversight bodies must remain cognizant of the legal principles surrounding impeachment so that the excise is not abused," urged CoG.
"The council shall engage relevant institutions with a view to streamlining court pronouncement with the law so that impeachment process can be anchored in legitimacy and impartially."
He was in the company of Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia), Patrick Khaemba (Trans Nzoia) and Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet).
They spoke after a virtual conference called to deliberate county issues. The CoG is expected to meet next week to deliberate on the matter further.
Their address comes days after CoG chairman Martin Wambora termed Mohamud’s impeachment and his deputy’s takeover rushed.
The former Wajir boss moved to court a day after Senate okayed his removal from office, as initiated by the Wajir County Assembly.
The new Wajir governor was sworn in despite a court order that barred the same.
Senate found him to have grossly violated the constitution, which was one of the charges he faced before the august House.
It acquitted him on a charge of abuse of office.
Rurii ward by-election UDA candidate Muraya Githaiga celebrates with his supporters after he was announced the winner at IEBC tallying center at Rurii PCEA church in Nyandarua County on May 18, 2021
The United Democratic Alliance (UDA) has unveiled candidates for Kiambaa constituency and Muguga ward by-elections, both in Kiambu County slated for July 15.
John Njuguna Wanjiku will fly the party's flag in Kiambaa, while Kamau Thumbi will face off with others in Muguga.
The two were unveiled yesterday at UDA's headquarters, a party associated with Deputy President William Ruto.
While handing the pair their respective certificates, party secretary general Veronica Maina told them to go and root for the party
"This is a good ticket. It is one of the best options in the market today for any politician," said Maina.
She made reference to UDA's victory in Rurii ward and linked it to Peoples' Empowerment Party (PEP) which clinched Juja parliamentary seat through George Koimburi.
Both Njuguna and Thumbi exuded confidence in taking up the seats. 
"This is our chance to make our statement that Kiambaa is a hustler-nation stronghold," said Njuguna.
"I would like to thank UDA for playing it fair and my competitors for their support," said Thumbi.
Among politicians who attended the launch included Meru Senator Mithika Linturi, Kikuyu lawmaker Kimani Ichung'wa and his Mathira colleague Rigathi Gachagua. MP-elect Koimburi was also present.
The Tangatanga-allied MPs chastised the government over the handling of Juja and Bonchari by-elections, and called for a fair process.
"We do not expect our competitors to misuse state agencies as they did in Juja, Rurii and Bonchari," said Ichung'wa.
"We look forward to a contest full of decorum and done on issues," said Gachagua.
"UDA believes that power belongs to the people. The opportunity that has arisen in Kiambaa and Muguga is an opportunity for people to make a decision on whom they want to delegate their power," said Linturi.
The United Democratic Alliance (UDA) associated with Deputy President William Ruto has rolled out a popularisation drive across the country.
The strategy involves dividing the country into six clusters which will be visited in phases.
The party's Secretary-General Veronica Maina announced that they have embarked on a campaign to engage regional membership across the country in phases.
She said UDA's victory in Rurii Ward, Nyandarua County and the Peoples Empowerment Party's win in the Juja parliamentary by-election has given them impetus to roll out massive registration of aspirants for various seats ahead of the 2022 elections. S
he said this will give UDA a headstart in next year’s General Election.
Ms Maina was speaking yesterday at the UDA headquarters in Nairobi when party officials met aspirants from all the 47 counties to map out their campaign strategy.
The aspirants include those eyeing seats in the National Assembly, Senate, Woman Rep and governor positions.
She said the party decided to settle on forums to enlighten the aspirants about the party constitution
. Maina said they outlined party ideologies and manifesto to the aspirants in the build-up to the grassroots election set for June and July.
“We had a very fruitful engagement. We managed to take the registered aspirants through the party constitution, the nomination process, how to market the party, and branding, among other key issues,” she said.
She also said they will use the forums to collect views on how the party should conduct its affairs ahead of the elections.
In the draft constitution, UDA proposes to have three deputy party leaders, three deputy chairpersons, three deputy secretaries-general, three deputy national treasurers, and three deputy national organising secretaries.
In attendance were Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok and Kandara MP Alice Wahome. 
I did not consult people of Kipipiri, flip-flopping Kimunya says will not resign over Jubilee loss
National Assembly Majority Leader Amos Kimunya has dismissed claims that he said he would resign if Jubilee fails to deliver in the Rurii by-election.
Kimunya said those are just political sentiments he expressed and did not consult the people of Kipipiri on whether he should resign as Majority leader.
The Kipipiri legislator had vowed to resign if Jubilee Party lost the Rurii Ward by-election in his Nyandarua backyard.
Jubilee candidate Peter Thinji lost to United Democratic Alliance's (UDA) Francis Muraya Githaiga, a party associated with Deputy President William Ruto.
In a video clip, Kimunya is captured saying: “I am the Jubilee Majority leader, this is our home and outsiders should not decide for us.”
He added, “Let us win this Rurii Ward by-election by 99 per cent so that those outsiders (UDA) trying to come here can be taught a lesson. Nyandarua is our home. If we lose in Rurii, I should just resign. How can Jubilee lose this seat in Nyandarua, and I am the Majority Leader?”
But on Wednesday, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) declared  Githaiga duly elected Member of County Assembly for Rurii.
“We thank God for Hustler nation victory in Juja and Rurii and the awesome show in Bonchari. A big congratulation to all our hustler teams for a sterling performance against all odds,” Ruto said.
Ruto added: “Hongera our competitors, let's keep it issue-based and pull together. Sasa tupange uchumi na Big 4.”
During an event at the home of Kieni MP Kanini Kega, where a number of Cabinet Secretaries from Central and MPs attended, Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemiawas asked to ensure Jubilee retained the seat.
In a dramatic about-turn, Kimunya says he will not bear the consequences of a matter that rests in another constituency.
“Many things have happened within the political circles. Rurii Ward, Bonchari and Juja constituencies have new representatives. I want to congratulate those who have been elected and ask those that did not get enough votes to accept the results. Accept the verdict of the people and live to fight another day,” Kimunya says.
He said his appeal to those who won the by-elections is to get on the job with speed and start delivering on promises they made.
“We only have about 12 months before the next election. They do not have much time and the only way they can win the hearts of people to get to work immediately,” he said.
He said on whether he has to resign from his position as majority leader after Jubilee failed to deliver in the three by-elections, he will have to do more consultations.
“I did not consult the people of Kipipiri and this is a fundamental decision that needs public participation. I doubt they would let me bear the consequences of matters that rest in another constituency. I believe the matter rests there and we move on with congratulating the winners and living situation that people have made their choice and we must respect that choice,” he said.
This comes even as sources within the presidency indicate that President Uhuru Kenyatta is furious over a string of losses that his administration has been handed in recent days.
The sources said the Head of State was particularly angered by the outcome of Rurii Ward and Juja parliamentary by-elections, where his Jubilee Party was beaten.
The President is said to have read the riot act to some top Jubilee officials for reportedly bungling the Juja and Rurii campaigns.
Involvement of civil servants, especially from Harambee House, was reportedly also discussed, with politicians in the president’s inner circle blaming the power wielders for using brute police force, occasioning a protest vote.
Kiambu Governor James Nyoro has denied being at the centre of chaos that saw the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) abruptly halt tallying of votes for Juja parliamentary by-election.
Dr Nyoro was captured in a video clip making rounds on social media is seen exchanging words with security agents at the tallying centre.
But he denied being involved in an altercation saying people misinterpreted the cause of his reaction in the clip.
While addressing the Press on Wednesday, he said there was more to his reaction that was captured in the video clip.
The county chief noted that the video did not show the beginning of the incident where he was trying to ask "the commissioners eligible questions."
He said he tried getting answers to the questions but his opponents did not want to hear any of it, hence causing the commotion.
“The clip does not tell it all. I had asked a simple question to the IEBC officials before our opponents started a shouting match. I was seated and calmly seeking answers on some observations that I had noted,” he said.
Nyoro claimed that not all votes from two polling stations where the Jubilee candidate had a strong showing were counted raising concerns of attempt to rig the by-election.
He claimed that votes from Gachororo and Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology were thrown in the field, raising alarm.
“We were not involved in any chaos. We all know who are violent in nature. People are busy tarnishing my name for no reason. I condemn in the strongest terms possible the insinuation that I'm a violent person. I have never been violent even during my campaigns," he said.
IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati said he will write to DPP Nordin Haji to prosecute the governor and his team over the chaos.
Chebukati blamed Nyoro for disrupting the tally of votes at Mang'u High School that saw the process resume yesterday morning.
The county chief however said he will wait for conclusion of investigation into the matter and promised to accept the outcome of the by-election. 
“We will accept the results and continue working on bettering Kiambu county,” he said.
Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo, who was campaigning for Jubilee's Susan Njeri Waititu also congratulated George Koimburi of little know People's Empowerment Party (PEP) allied to the Deputy President and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria.
"As one who has been honored to serve the people of Kiambu county as former governor and previously as a long serving MP for Juja constituency, i believe that we must now put the divisions of the campaigns behind us and pursue a common goal of uplifting and serving the people," urged Kabogo.
"Hon Njeri, we mounted a spirited fight but the people of Juja decided otherwise. I urge you to unite with Koimburi to pursue the interests of the people of Juja in honor of your late husband and former MP Francis Waititu," he added.
Court dismisses Oscar Sudi's plea seeking to stop forgery case
Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi has lost a bid to stop his prosecution over allegations of forging academic certificates.
Court of Appeal yesterday dismissed his application, noting that it had no powers to order a magistrate's court to stop hearing the criminal case.
According to Court of Appeal judges William Ouko, Wanjiru Karanja and Asike Makhandia, Mr Sudi does not appear to challenge the criminal case but was aggrieved about the constitutionality of the charges.
“The said criminal proceedings are not the subject of the appeal before this court. It is discernible from the notice of appeal dated August 10, 2017, as well as the draft memorandum of appeal annexed to the motion, that the subject of the appeal is the High Court’s judgment dated July 24, 2017, which dismissed the applicant’s constitutional petition. As such, we have no jurisdiction to stay the criminal proceedings in the chief magistrate’s court,” they ruled.
In the trial, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission said the criminal case is halfway heard, with seven out of 14 prosecution witnesses having already testified. 
This is the second time Sudi has failed to stop the criminal case.
In the High Court, Justice Hedwig Ong’udi ruled that the prosecution did not violate the rights of Sudi when he was charged with forging academic certificates while seeking clearance from the electoral commission to contest in the March 4, 2013 elections.
Kuria-fronted candidate, George Koimburi, beats Jubilee’s Susan Waititu in Juja by-election
The People’s Empowerment Party candidate George Koimburi has won the Juja by-election after getting 12,159 votes against Jubilee’s Susan Waititu, who garnered 5,746 votes.
The results were announced on Wednesday evening after all the 184 polling centres reported their respective outcomes.
Kariuki Joseph Gichui, an independent candidate, came third with 1,356 votes.
The voter turnout was a low 18.91 per cent, with only 21,862 out of the 115,632 registered voters casting their ballot.
The winner, George Koimburi, was fronted by among other leaders, Gatundu South Member of Parliament Moses Kuria.
Deputy President William Ruto continued his charm offensive to woo regional caucuses with his economic recovery agenda ahead of the 2022 election.
Yesterday, Dr Ruto hosted former councilors from Kajiado County at his official residence in Karen where they discussed the bottom-up economic model and how best to change the lives of constituents.
The DP stated that being grassroots leaders, the former councilors had a great role to play in entrenching economic reforms in their communities.
“We are rooting for an expansive, inclusive and broad-based economic intervention that will give ordinary Kenyans a chance to make a living and create wealth. In the long-run, these signature reforms will boost people’s standards of living and foster the country’s growth sustainably,” said Ruto.
In attendance were MPs Katoo ole Metito (Kajiado South), George Sunkuyia (Kajiado West), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi) and Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati).
This is DP Ruto’s umpteenth meeting with regional leaders. 
On Thursday last week, Ruto held talks with members of Purko Barley Growers Association from Narok County at his Karen home.
The farmers who were accompanied by MPs Lemanken Aramat, Gabriel Tongoyo, David ole Sankok and Soipan Kudate, presented a list of challenges they face and proposed solutions as a condition for supporting the DP.
“We are encouraging agricultural diversification in order to increase farmers' earnings and improve livelihoods. The national and county governments will collaborate in supporting farmers in this endeavor through research, training and resource mobilisation,” Ruto said on his social media pages.
Last week, MPs from Coast allied to Ruto, held a private meeting on Sunday, to deliberate on the economic agenda of the region ahead of 2022.
They deliberated on the special economic zones, blue economy, county housing projects, mining and job opportunities at the port.
They are expected to host the DP in coming weeks. MPs who attended the meeting were Owen Baya, Aisha Jumwa and Mohammed Ali among others.
On May 8, the DP also met leaders from Mt Kenya to discuss how to re-engineer the economy.
Ruto said they are taking collaborative efforts to promote enterprise and foster empowerment of ordinary Kenyans.
Ruto met with three representatives from each of the 11 counties from Mt Kenya as a follow-up to the Masai Mara meeting.
"Through the ongoing consultations covering all regions and all sectors of the economy, we anticipate the generation of more jobs and expanded opportunities for those in the lower cadre will rid our country of poverty," he said.
The DP has also been making inroads in Western where he seeks to eat into the support base of ODM leader Raila Odinga.
Last week, leaders who included one of Ruto’s point men in Nyanza, Eliud Owalo, met in Nairobi to plan what they described as their economic strategy for the region.
They said their strategy will form the basis of their negotiations with other presidential hopefuls ahead of 2022.
They said anyone seeking the support of the region will have to enter into a pre-election economic pact with them.
Many former foot soldiers of Raila attended Friday’s meeting convened by Owalo a former aide to the ODM leader.
The politicians claimed that they had the blessings of Ruto to organise the meeting with one of the agendas being to look for ways to attract more Nyanza leaders to the camp.
The strategy also involves attracting professionals who will help compile the economic needs of the region in a document that will form the basis for Ruto’s campaigns in Nyanza.
Raila calls for an end to police brutality as ODM wins Bonchari seat
The Orange Democratic Movement Party leader Raila Odinga has called for an end of police brutality after the party emerged victorious in the Bonchari by-election in Kisii.
According to Raila, what was witnessed in the Bonchari and Juja by-elections is an ‘abuse of police powers and an arrogant display of impunity by a few overzealous and bellicose government functionaries.’
"An election process is an opportunity for the voters to express their will at the ballot and not an avenue to pursue imaginary and short-legged political interests. Security forces exist to serve the people and not the interests of those out to conduct political experiments."
Raila said that the peaceful co-existence post-2018 must not be taken for granted by some rogue elements wanting to confuse the handshake for an excuse to erode the country's hard-earned liberties.
The ODM candidate Eng Pavel Oimeke won the Bonchari by-election.
Oimeke garnered 8,049 votes against Jubilee's Zepedeo Opore who had 7,279 votes. UDA candidate Teresa Oroo managed 6,954 votes.
The voter turnout was 50 percent with 26,526 total votes cast.
The Constituency had 52, 955 registered voters and 103 polling stations.
The One Kenya Alliance Principals, From Left; ANC Party Leader Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper Democratic Movement Party Leader Kalonzo Musyoka, KANU Party Leader Gideon Moi and Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetangula during their consultation meeting on the current state of affairs of the Country at Kalonzo's Karen offices in Nairobi on May 18, 2021.
One Kenya Alliance principals are in the process of formalising a political pact that will spell out power-sharing agreement in readiness for the 2022 General Election.
Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka, Kanu chairman and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and Ford-Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula yesterday received a report from a technical committee that they tasked with formalising the new alliance.
In a statement, the four leaders disclosed that progress had been made in crafting the political formation that seeks to have one of its principals succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta when he exits office next year.
“The One Kenya Alliance Principals met today (yesterday) to receive an update report form a technical committee on the progress made in formalising the Alliance,” read the joint statement sent to newsrooms.
The leaders are said to have expressed “satisfaction with the progress so far,” noting that Kenyans were anxiously waiting for the same “as a vehicle that carries their aspirations”.
The disclosure, by the team, of the existence of a technical committee suggests that there are already discussions on who will go for what position in the next poll.
All four leaders have indicated interest to run for the top seat, making the process of picking the alliance’s flag bearer a delicate affair.
The leaders have in the past hinted at bringing onboard more key figures to craft a formidable outfit for the succession battle.
Some of the principals have separately held consultative meetings with other political players, including ODM leader Raila Odinga.
At the same time, the leaders commended Senate for ratifying the impeachment of Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi Mohamud on Monday.
They said that was a bold step in the fight against corruption and impunity.
Gideon and Wetang’ula were among the 25 senators that voted in support of the impeachment Motion and sealed the fate of the governor.
The leaders expressed dissatisfaction with the High Court judgement that declared the Building Bridges Initiative null and void, putting an injunction to the referendum through the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020. On Covid-19, the leaders expressed concern over reports of a potential fourth wave in July.
They called on the Ministry of Health to intensify mass testing and vaccination to mitigate any possible devastating effects of the pandemic.
The leaders urged relevant authorities to urgently put in place measures to curb destruction caused by flooding.
They also called on the government to fast track the distribution of subsidised seeds and fertiliser to farmers to take advantages of the ongoing rains.
Chaos erupted at Mang’u High School tallying centre, Juja constituency after allegations of vote-rigging in the by-elections emerged.
This prompted police to contain the situation by sending away politicians present.
Kiambu Governor James Nyoro, Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro were among the politicians who were kicked out by the police.
It was a disorderly scene with chairs disarranged and papers scattered on the floor as rowdy politicians and their party agents made their way out of the centre.
Kiambu Governor James Nyoro was on record in one of the videos making rounds on Social media demanding a fair vote tallying process.
“We are not fools, and we have made our point,” he said in the video as an unknown voice in the background supported his sentiments.
It is the chaotic behaviour that prompted the police to take charge and restore calm in the constituency’s tallying station.
The tallying process was suspended for some time as politicians, their supporters and party agents were kicked out of the tallying centre under the command of Kiambu County Commander Ali Nuno.
This comes hours after political parties alleged intimidation in the three by-elections that took place in the country on Tuesday.
The country had by-elections in Bonchari and Juja constituencies as well as Rurii ward.
The three by-elections have been marred by chaos and allegations of intimidations by the police.
Earlier, the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party and ODM had said their candidates and agents were facing intimidation by the police.
Deputy President William Ruto has called on leaders to be discrete when initiating constitutional changes.
His sentiments come days after a five-judge bench of the High court nullified the BBI process.
Speaking from his Karen residence, Dr Ruto hinted at a possibility of leaders coming up with an agreement that he says will bring the country together.
“We should have an agreement that creates a path for Kenyans to work together even as we compete,” he said.
The country’s second in command also urged leaders to put the interests of Kenyans first adding that the country was facing serious challenges that needed to be addressed.
Deputy President William Ruto, who has openly challenged the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020 since its inception expressed gratitude to a higher power, moments after the shocking ruling.
“There is GOD in heaven who loves Kenya immeasurably. May GOD'S name is praised forever,” he tweeted in response to the High Court judgement.
The One Kenya Alliance has registered its dissatisfaction with the High Court judgment on the BBI Constitutional Amendment Bill.
Its principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetangula and Gideon Moi said Kenyans should, however, be patient and wait for the appeal process to proceed to its logical conclusion.
The High Court last week annulled the BBI referendum process throwing the future of the initiative into uncertainty.
A bench comprising Justices Joel Ngugi, George Odunga, Jairus Ngaah, Teresia Matheka and Chacha Mwita upheld a consolidated case by eight petitioners that the constitution bears essential features on its basic structure that cannot be amended.
The court held that the BBI secretariat and steering committee had failed to provide critical information to the public as outlined in the procedures to amend the constitution through a popular initiative.
The court also observed that the president cannot initiate a process to change the constitution in the pretext of promoting national unity.
But the four principals expressed hope that the appellate court will uphold the sovereign will of the people of Kenya.
They spoke after a meeting on Tuesday.
The meeting, they said, was aimed at receiving an update report from a technical committee on the progress made in formalising the Alliance.
They expressed satisfaction with the progress so far, noting that Kenyans were waiting anxiously for the same as a vehicle that carries their aspirations.
The Principals also expressed concerns over reports of a potential 4th wave of the COVID-19 in the month of July, calling upon the Ministry of Health to intensify mass testing and vaccination to mitigate against this danger.
The principals also regretted the devastating effects of floods across the country that has led to the loss of lives and destruction of property, calling upon the relevant authorities to put in place urgent measures to curb this situation.
They also called upon the government to intensify the distribution of subsidised seeds and fertiliser to farmers to take advantages of the ongoing rains.
Lastly, the Principals applauded the Senate for its decision to impeach the Governor of Wajir, terming it a bold step in the fight against corruption and impunity in the Counties.
Voting is underway in the Juja and Bonchari parliamentary by-elections.
This comes as the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission prepares to deliver results for three by-elections perceived to be an acid test for President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga.
A by-election is also happening in Rurii Ward in Nyandarua County where Jubilee is battling United Democratic Alliance (UDA).
A spot check in the two constituencies reveals that voters had lined up from as early as 5 am.
The electoral agency opened the polling stations some minutes after 7 am.
The two by-elections took a popularity contest with either party accusing the others of harassment and intimidation.
In Bonchari, the battle is pitting President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party, Raila Odinga's ODM and DP William Ruto-linked UDA.
In Juja, Jubilee is facing off with Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria's Ndung'u Koimburi candidate running on the People's Empowerment Party.
The Juja parliamentary seat became vacant after MP Francis Waititu succumbed to brain cancer on February 22, 2021, at MP Shah Hospital.
Waititu was elected on a Jubilee ticket during the 2017 General Election. He garnered 66,190 votes.
According to IEBC, Juja constituency has 114,761 registered voters.
The 2017 General Election had an 80 per cent voter turn-out which saw 91,801 Kenyans casting their votes in the region.  
11 candidates were cleared to contest.
In Bonchari, the seat was left vacant following the death of MP Oroo Oyioka.
The ruling Jubilee Party, ODM, UDA and Maendeleo Chap Chap are among those that have fielded candidates in the by-election occasioned by the death of area MP John Oroo Oyioka.
UDA has party fronted Teresa Bitutu, the widow of the former MP, while Raila’s party has presented Pavel Oimeke and Jubilee one-time area MP Zebedeo John Opore.
The Gusii region has been known to see fringe parties triumph in elections as so-called big parties are left high and dry. 
Despite winning the Kisii gubernatorial, senatorial and woman rep seats, ODM emerged empty-handed in constituency seats with no parliamentary candidate in the area winning on the Orange ticket in 2017.
While ODM is seeking to consolidate its support in Kisii which is regarded as its base, Matiang’i is said to be keen on ensuring Jubilee Party wins to weigh his support in the area.
As President Uhuru Kenyatta continues to maintain studious silence on the High Court ruling on the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI), his allies have decided to play safe as they plot their political moves.
Birthed by the handshake between President Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga, the initiative to unite Kenyans that metamorphosised into the plan to amend the 2010 Constitution had co-opted top party leaders including Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Moses Wetangula (Ford Kenya), Charity Ngilu (Narc) and Gideon Moi (Kanu).
After High Court Judges Joel Ngugi, George Odunga, Jairus Ngaah, Teresia Matheka and Chacha Mwita declared the BBI unconstitutional, the politicians who seems to have been caught flatfooted have now adopted a cautions response to the matter.
Aware of the BBI timelines and the clock ticking fast towards the next General Election which is 14 months away and fear that the referendum to change the law could slip through their fingers, Raila, Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula seem to be coming to reality that time is not on their side.
The ANC leader has already called for a national conference to relook the BBI. But is quick to note that the process should not be limited to happening before the next General Election.
"Regardless of the results from any appeals preferred, the bulk of the provisions of the BBI Bill will not, for sure, become operational in next year’s General Election... for instance the proposed 70 constituencies would not be applicable if a referendum is not concluded before August 2022," said Mudavadi.
Instead, the ANC leader has proposed that the entire process to change the law starts a fresh and be guided by the High Court verdict.
He argues that there must be a silver lining out of the court’s judgement and Kenyans should re-start a proper conversation in the format of the 1997 IPPG arrangement.
"We should not throw out the baby with the bathwater," said Mudavadi.
Raila who was the first to respond to the ruling expressed his disappointment in the turn of events and vowed to move to Court of Appeal.
“We will move to the Court of Appeal to present our case as to why we think the High Court did not render the right verdict. We will do so with sobriety and with respect for our judges and courts,” said Raila.
He however, said the judgement was a direct disrespect for the Presidency and the Office of the President.
The ODM leader urged those opposed to the ruling to restrain from personalised attacks on the court and the judges.
"We must respect its ruling and its freedom to exercise its judgment as it understands the legal and constitutional matters before it," said Raila.
President Kenyatta is working on the appeal through the Attorney General Paul Kihara and Solicitor General Ken Ogeto.
The AG has already filed notice of appeal at the Court of Appeal and moved to the High Court’s Constitutional Court and Human Rights division to seek stay order. 
Meanwhile, lawyer Ahmednassir Abdullahi believes that Raila should not appeal the BBI judgment.
Perhaps keen to take in such advice, Raila has been on vacation in Watamu, Kilifi County and is yet to assemble a team of lawyers to prepare an appeal.  
Yesterday, Kalonzo broke his silence on the High Court judgement and called on Kenyans to respect the rule of law despite disagreeing with the decision.
The Wiper leader insisted that although a number of Kenyans were not happy about the ruling, they need to respect the Judiciary.
High voltage
"I also ask all Kenyans to respect due process, and respect our Judiciary. It is neither wise nor helpful to disparage the Judiciary on account of the High Court Judgment. Even though some of us may disagree with various declarations made in that high voltage judgment, we can disagree without being disagreeable," said Kalonzo.
Kenya’s constitution-making process, the Wiper leader noted, was never been easy from the first efforts recorded by the Lancaster House Conference.
Wetang'ula warned Kenyans against name calling of the five judges.
"My advice to those in leadership is to remember in our court hierarchy we have layers of courts, those who are not happy, the Court of Appeal doors are open," he said.
The Ford-Kenya leader urged the political divide not to engage in name calling against the judges.  
Mohamud impeachment: Be lenient with me, Wajir Governor pleads with senators
Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi Mohamud pleaded with the Senate to spare him after the special committee upheld his impeachment by the County Assembly of Wajir over gross violation of the constitution. 
While addressing the Senate on May 17 before the senators took a vote on his ouster, Governor Mohamud urged the Senators to be humane and give him a chance to serve the people of Wajir.
Mohamud said he might have violated the constitution, but the violation cannot be gross based on what his administration has achieved within the four years.
“I wish to plead with the Senate to be sympathetic and not use one aspect to oust me, let the Senate be humane and give us a chance so that we can serve our people,” he said.
In the health sector, where he is accused of failing to provide services leading to loss of lives, Governor Mohamud said his administration has built 50 health facilities and bought more ambulances for the county in the last four years.
“We have built over 50 health facilities in Wajir within the four years at least every ward has one dispensary or more. We also managed to buy more ambulances with 16 currently operational,” he said.
He said his officers in the health department gave adequate information on health status in Wajir and wondered why they were only picking on issues such as generator breakdowns to impeach him.
He said Wajir has had challenges of power in most of his facilities because of the use of generators instead of electricity.
“We are not on the national grid, we depend on generator driven by fuel, hence rampant breakdowns challenges,” he pleaded.
Governor Mohamud pleaded for leniency saying out of the 17 charges, only one was substantiated against him, adding that it meant they were frivolous.
The Senate committee had recommended Governor Mohamud over gross violation of the constitution.
The Nyamira Senator Okon’go Omogeni-chaired committee found that the Wajir county boss was guilty of gross violation of the Constitution by flouting the County Government Act, Public Procurement Act and Asset Disposal Act and the Public Finance Management Act.
The committee, however, absolved the governor of abuse of office and gross misconduct charges, saying the Members of County Assembly did not provide sufficient evidence.
The final vote on his proposed impeachment by the Senate will take place this evening.
Mohamud was impeached on Tuesday, April 27, after 37 MCAs voted in favour of his ouster, while 10 opposed his removal.
Senate suspends ouster debate for 15 minutes after Governor Mohamud falls ill
The Senate was forced to adjourn for 15 minutes during the impeachment hearing of Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi Mohamud after he fell ill a few minutes before the debate started.
Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka suspended the session for 15 minutes following a request from Governor Mohamud’s legal team.
While making the request before the Senate on May 17, lead lawyer Ndegwa Njiru told the Senate that Governor Mohamud fell ill a few minutes before the debate started but was able to recover
“I spoke to him when the session began and he was slightly taken ill but was able to recover and is on his way here, we request 10 to 15 minutes,” he said.
Njiru while pleading with the Senate said it was the governor who was on trial and deserves to be heard
He said Governor Mohamud will be given at least five minutes to defend himself before his legal team can wrap up the defence.
“Once he arrives, he will be allocated five minutes to defend himself before the lawyers can summarise on the same,” he said.
While contributing to the request, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said it was normal for someone to fall ill more so when faced with things like an impeachment.
“It is not surprising to find anyone to fall ill in these difficult moments, we should find the right Standing Order to find how we can adjourn,” said Murkomen.
A senate committee had earlier recommended the removal of Wajir Governor Mohamud over gross violation of the constitution.
The Nyamira Senator Okon’go Omogeni-chaired committee found that the Wajir county boss was guilty of a gross violation of the Constitution by flouting the County Government Act, Public Procurement Act and Asset Disposal Act and the Public Finance Management Act.
The committee, however, absolved the governor from abuse of office and gross misconduct charges, saying the Members of County Assembly did not provide sufficient evidence.
The MCAs cited financial impropriety, abuse of office, gross misconduct and violation of the Constitution as grounds for his removal.
They accused the county boss of breaching Articles 235 of the Constitution, the County Government Act, and the Public Service Act by allegedly constantly reshuffling county officers
MCAs from eight county assemblies in Central have raised concern over the gains the region stands to lose should the appeal on the BBI ruling fail at the Court of Appeal. 
Speaking in Nyeri on Monday, chairpersons of the assembly Justice and Legal Affairs Committees (JLAC) said the region was expected to have the proposed 17 new constituencies.
The MCAs drawn from Nyeri, Nakuru, Tharaka Nithi, Muranga, Meru, Laikipia, Kiambu and Embu county assemblies expressed support for constitutional amendments saying this will increase the region's political representation at the county and national level
Nyeri JLAC chairperson Julia Wanjiku said: "These proposals would have seen the region closer to the one man, one vote, one shilling principle that is the foundation of democracy." 
Further, Ms Wanjiku noted that the assemblies conducted more than 150 public participation forums where the BBI report received support of the people.
Mt Kenya JLAC caucus chair Stanley Karanja (MCA Naivasha East) said the proposed Ward Development Fund would have ensured development of the region. 
"Currently governors decide which wards to develop and some wards are marginalised due to this situation. But BBI was proposing to ring-fence the ward funds and distribute about Sh20 million to each ward towards development," he said.
Karanja stated that central Kenya stands to lose close to Sh55 billion through increased allocation to counties from 15 per cent to 35 per cent. 
"These are monies which would have enabled us to invest in healthcare, agriculture and roads," he said. 
He noted that Nakuru County would have benefited from increased constituencies.
"Nakuru County would have gained at least five constituencies and this would have ensured money for development and fair representation in the county assembly," he stated.
Mwiyogo MCA Micheal Karuma asked for the courts to consider the fact that citizens overwhelmingly supported BBI proposals and gave MCAs the mandate to support the same in the county assemblies.
"The Court of Appeal should overturn the High Court ruling to protect the will of the people which was expressed through public participation process that the MCAs carried out," he said. 
Senate committee recommends removal of Wajir Governor Abdi
The committee, however,  absolved the governor from abuse of office and Gross Misconduct charges, saying the Members of County Assembly did not provide sufficient evidence.
The final vote on his proposed impeachment by the Senate takes place on Monday evening. 
They accused the county boss of breaching Articles 235 of the Constitution, the County Government Act, and the Public Service Act by allegedly constantly reshuffling county officers.
They also faulted the governor for flouting the Public Procurement Act and Asset Disposal Act.
The Senate voted to have him tried in a committee with 28 senators voting in favour of the committee, 14 for plenary while two abstained. Okong’o Omogeni was deputized by Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika in the 11-member committee.
The committee held sittings between Wednesday, May 12 and Thursday, May 13 before retreating to write the report over the weekend. The report was tabled in a special sitting on Monday, May 17. 
MCAs have faulted the High Court ruling that declared the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) null and void.
Speaking at a Nairobi hotel yesterday, caucus of MCAs leadership forum chair Meru MCA Victor Kareithi expressed disappointment in the Judges' decision.
Mr Kareithi argued that the court's decision amounts to taking away the sovereign power of Kenyans in amending the Constitution.
The MCAs insisted the BBI report was not a product of the Handshake but rather about the people.
“The judgment does not acknowledge that a Constitution is a living document that must be responsive to the needs and desires of a society at any given time,” they said.
The MCAs faulted the declaration that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) was not properly constituted and cannot conduct a referendum because it has no quorum after some commissioners resigned.
The judges ruled that all the actions taken by IEBC concerning the BBI Bill are null and void.
“We find it strange that the bench found that on one hand IEBC can transact business but on the other hand it cannot because of a statute that provides a quorum of five members. Clearly, the bench elevated a statute over the Constitution,” he said.
The MCAs faulted the declaration that the BBI process was not all-inclusive.
On Thursday, the judges ruled that a constitutional amendment through a popular initiative is only a preserve of the ordinary Kenyans and not the executive.
They declared that the BBI Taskforce was an unlawful entity.
“A Declaration is hereby made that being an unconstitutional and unlawful entity, the Steering Committee on the Implementation of the Building Bridges to a United Kenya Taskforce Report, has no legal capacity to initiate any action towards promoting constitutional changes,” the judges ruled.
Kareithi said all concerned parties had popularised the Bill and it received approval of county assemblies and Parliament.
“The secretariat popularised the Bill which was endorsed by over three million voters against the constitutional requirement. It was then approved by parliament. It’s imperative to note that before these approvals, these legislative bodies held over 100 national and county-based intensive public participation forums,” he said.
As BBI proponents head to Court of Appeal today the MCA’s said in the event the High Court decision is upheld, Kenyans stand to lose if allocation to counties remains at 15 per cent of the national revenue instead of the 35 per cent proposed in the Bill.
“The legislative gridlock inflow of Division of Revenue Bill and enactment of county Allocation of Revenue Acts will remain and therefore paralysis in running the county governments will remain a recurrent matter,” he said.
They further stated that 1,450 wards in Kenya will miss out on the proposed Ward Development Fund.
Drive to enlist UDA members heats up with focus on posts
Rift Valley politics is bracing for a shakeup as legislators allied to Deputy President William Ruto’s Jubilee Party prepare to jump ship to the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) Party ahead of next year’s General Election.
The Standard on Sunday has established that governors, senators, MPs and MCAs are angling for positions in the new party, which they intend to use to either seek re-election or frustrate their rivals.
The political realignment has been triggered by a falling out between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto, who rode the crest of a wave of popularity in the Rift Valley to emerge victorious in the 2013 and 2017 elections.
With Ruto on record saying he may consider exiting Jubilee for UDA, whose national chairman is Johnstone Muthama, there has been manoeuvering behind the scenes to secure control of the party that has not gone down well with some of the DP’s supporters.
“We are aware of agents of disunity moving around hoodwinking people that they have the blessings of the deputy president to control affairs of UDA in counties. They have positioned people to take up positions as interim officials,” Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri told The Sunday Standard recently.
The MP, who is one of Ruto’s firm supporters, has been hosting delegations of elders, youth leaders and women at his Bahati home to popularise UDA and the ‘wheelbarrow’ agenda, which is aligned to Ruto’s ‘Hustler Nation’ movement.
As UDA embarks on a drive to register new members in the next two months to pave the way for elections, Mr Ngunjiri warned that political brokers are planning to hijack the party’s leadership at the grassroots. 
He urged Mr Muthama to ensure all party activities are done transparently as the recruitment process continues.
Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei said elected leaders from the region “are in agreement” that UDA is their party of choice in the next General Election. The UDA secretariat, he added, has already trained coordinators through a website that will be used to register members.
“We are excited over the ongoing exercise. Coordinators will do the outreach and members recruited virtually because of the prevailing Covid-19 situation. We target to register over 300,000 members in Nandi County alone,” said Mr Cherargei.
Aldai MP Cornelly Serem said the region is undergoing political change ahead of the elections.
 “We are planning for our next home after the Jubilee debacle. Currently, we are registering members and then hold grassroots elections. All leaders are involved.”
Uasin Gishu UDA coordinator Paul Kiprop allayed fears that some officials are receiving preferential treatment in the new outfit. 
He said those managing the party were doing so on a voluntary basis to mobilise support and strengthen it ahead of the elections.
“In Uasin Gisu County, Soy MP Caleb Kositany and his Kapseret counterpart Oscar Sudi are championing party issues. There are still challenges of resources and we call on UDA supporters to assist in fostering it,” Mr Kiprop said.
The Rift Valley–once a Kanu bedrock–has witnessed shifting political party allegiances in the past two decades.
The region stood by ODM in 2007, URP in 2013, and Jubilee in 2017.
“The problem that leads to a transition in parties is mistrust and inconsistency in party leadership. We would not be having UDA membership registration at the moment if Jubilee was consistent and stuck to its manifesto,” said Kiprop.
Mr Sudi, one of the DP’s fiercest defenders, predicted that the Rift Valley will be ‘placed under lock and key’ by Ruto’s camp ahead of the 2022 polls.
“Everyone wants to identify with UDA since it is a party with a good future. Its popularity is growing by the day. In the next five months, we will have hit even greater heights.”
In Narok County, Emurua Dikir MP Johana Ngeno said that although he was elected on a Kanu ticket, he would be the first to jump ship and join UDA. 
It is an open secret that we will be moving to UDA when the time is right.
I am currently busy ensuring that my constituents register as members of UDA for the June party grassroots elections.
Besides the ongoing mass registration of members, Ruto allies have been wooing some of the deputy president’s critics in the Rift Valley to return to the fold.
Former Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto has been reeled in and has been instrumental in spearheading the ‘wheelbarrow’ agenda in the South Rift region.
Close allies of the deputy president told The Sunday Standard that plans are underway to welcome back former powerful Internal Security Permanent Secretary Zakayo Cheruiyot and West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo.
Analysts have, however, warned that Independence-party Kanu could give UDA a run for its money.
Gitile Naituli, a professor of management and leadership at Multimedia University, said there are signs party chairman Gideon Moi will enter into an alliance with like-minded leaders thus thrusting him at the centre of the Uhuru succession matrix.
BBI judgment: Uhuru's worst nightmare since Maraga's 2017 shocker
President Uhuru Kenyatta has been exposed politically by Thursday’s High Court ruling, which could trigger a litany of suits and a possible bid for impeachment.
The five-judge Bench accused the president of violating chapter six of the Constitution, after consolidating cases from several litigants challenging the constitutional review process through the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI).
Yesterday, ICPK director Ndungu Wainaina said the BBI process could not be salvaged after the ruling, adding that the judges had made it clear that the basic structure doctrine limits the amendment power.
“The basic structure can only be amended by the primary constituent process,” said Wainaina.
During the ruling, the judges also said civil court proceedings can be instituted against the president.
Legal experts yesterday said President Kenyatta’s remaining tenure could be in limbo, legally.
They said unless the judgment is overturned on appeal, the finding by the five judges was a clarification of the law that the president should observe the limits set by the Constitution and the law.
However, lawyer Kibe Mungai said although the verdict can be the reason for impeachment, it will be a herculean task because the president enjoys majority support in both houses of Parliament.
 “It is not very new, it is a clarification that the president can be sued in his personal capacity and not about his functions, for example, if a president is to rob a bank, he will be sued as an individual and not as a president. That is the correct interpretation in most countries. That is proper finding,” said Mungai.
The five judges were of the view that the President is only protected from such actions in respect of anything done or not done in the exercise of their powers under this Constitution. 
“Assuming, in his tenure, the President embarks on a mission that is not only clearly in violation of the Constitution but is also destructive to the nation, would it not be prudent that he should be stopped in his tracks rather than wait until the lapse of his tenure by which time the country may have tipped over the cliff?” they posed.
The judges were determining President Kenyatta’s role in the BBI process.
However, the court is split on if he was justified or had powers to appoint the BBI task force. 
On one hand, Justice John Mativo said the president was right, while the other judges found that he had breached Chapter Six of the Constitution.
“The President cannot be said to have acted ultra vires the Constitution. He acted intra vires in taking steps to achieve this noble constitutional requirement. The President’s decision meets both the proportionality and rationality tests which are core requirements for the decision to pass the principle of legality test,” Justice Mativo ruled on the formation of the BBI task force.
Yesterday, a senior counsel who sought anonymity, said President Kenyatta did not act out of the blues in forming the BBI task force. 
He also argues that by the Judiciary participating in the process, it had given its thumb of approval.
“The Judiciary participated in the BBI process. They for example, sought for extension of the time of hearing of the presidential petition. How can the Judiciary participate in the process and then turn around and say the president should be impeached for it?” he posed.
Lawyer Jackson Awele said if there are different interpretations on the President’s role from the High Court, then it is for the Court of Appeal to iron them out.
“If there are issues which are not in sync, it will be for the Court of Appeal to harmonise them,” Awele said.
Notably, it is the second time that the High Court has found that President Kenyatta can be sued in person.
In the first case, involving the swearing of 41 judges, High Court judges George Dulu, William Musyoka and James Wakiaga found that the Constitution does not shield the president from being dragged into a constitutional or judicial review court even when in office.
The three judges, however, pointed out that he should not be sued in person but through the Attorney General.
Yesterday, Law Society of Kenya (LSK) president Nelson Havi said the 321-page judgment is an indictment to President Kenyatta. 
He said the breach of the Constitution was a serious issue that he can be personally held accountable for. 
According to him the judge’s reference to the President as Mr Uhuru also amounted to stripping him of his status as Head of State.
There is no decision of the High Court that is as clear on the misconduct of the President as this one.
On the judges’ appointment, they just said if he had just breached the Constitution, if it were in Israel or India, he would have resigned. You realised they have referred to him as Mr Kenyatta; they have stripped him the stature of a President. Unfortunately, Parliament is emasculated and will not impeach him but it will go a long way to dent his image as a leader,” Havi said.
But early in the week, President Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga had rallied the National Assembly and the Senate to overwhelmingly endorse the BBI Bill, setting the stage for a constitutional review. 
Only a public endorsement through a referendum was awaiting until the High Court’s shock ruling on Thursday. The push for law review began with their March 9, 2018 Handshake, following the controversial 2017 presidential elections. 
But the journey to change the 2010 Constitution has not been rosy, after the BBI received a lukewarm reception from Deputy President William Ruto, a voracious civil society that sought to derail the process and then the Covid-19 pandemic, coped with a struggling economy.
After the BBI sailed through in Parliament, both Speakers said they were preparing to hand over the Bill to President Kenyatta. 
“We have finished our role and are waiting for the President to give us an appointment so that we can jointly present the Bill,” said Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka. His National Assembly counterpart Justin Muturi said they had cleared their part. 
“The staff are going through typos and referencing errors before booking an appointment with the president,” said Muturi.
But there had been another hurdle to the process. 
In February, a five-judge Bench had barred President Kenyatta from assenting to the Bill should it be passed by the bicameral Parliament. 
Thirdway Alliance lawyers had applied to have the National Assembly and the Senate barred from acting on the resolutions by county assemblies.
They ruled that the amendments would not come into force until determination of the petitions challenging the process. Justices Joel Ngugi, George Odunga, Jairus Ngaah, Chacha Mwita and Teresiah Matheka issued the orders following an application by Thirdway Alliance, a week ago in Nakuru.
Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, who has been spearheading the unity talks and the clamour for a Coast political party accused MPs of frustrating his efforts. 
With unity talks on the brink of collapse, the Coast Region is perhaps coming full circle, with its leadership repeating the errors that have for decades hindered the desired political unity.
It has emerged that traditional turf wars, mistrust or selfishness among Coast leaders and the influence of upcountry votes have impeded the region’s quest to unite ahead of next year’s elections.
Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, who has been spearheading the unity talks and the clamour for a Coast political party or coalition, appears to have thrown in the towel, accusing MPs of frustrating his efforts.
“I have tried to bring Coast MPs for talks but some have been uneasy with the idea,” said Kingi, adding that the unity talks have been misconstrued to be his personal political agenda.
The signs of the collapse of the talks emerged in early April after Kingi and his Mombasa counterpart Hassan Joho held parallel meetings with Coast leaders.
On April 9, talks between Kingi and officials of fringe parties in the region also hit a snag over the differences on whether they should dissolve and merge into a single party or form a coalition.
After a two-day meeting at Mnarani Hotel in Kilifi, the officials of Kadu Asili, Shirikisho Party of Kenya and Umoja Summit Party of Kenya (USPK) rejected Kingi’s push for them to dissolve.
Former Cabinet Minister Morris Dzoro, who is the Shirikisho Party leader, Kadu Asili Chairman Joshua Kombora and his USPK counterpart Matano Chengo have vowed never to dissolve the parties.
But Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya appears to have revived the talks. However, in a recent interview, he delinked his meetings with the leadership of the fringe parties to Kingi’s plans.
Although Joho, Kingi and Mvurya have held several meetings, they all appear to be reading from different scripts. Joho has vowed to unite Coast under ODM, Kingi through a new party while Mvurya hopes to rally the region behind Deputy President William Ruto.
Coast MPs, on the other hand, accuse Kingi of failing to articulate the agenda of his proposed political pact.
“Inasmuch as we embrace the idea of Coast unity, we cannot be subjected to uncalled for intimidation by agents of mistrust and individualism,” said Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire.
Mwambire, who is also the Secretary of the Coast Parliamentary Group, said Kingi should go back to the drawing board and “clear the grey areas”.
Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir said Kingi failed to tell the Coast what the new political party stands for, claiming that “he wanted to use it for his personal gains”.
The idea of the Coast party has over the years sparked apprehension among upcountry voters in the region, largely due to the region’s history on majimbo or federalism ideologies.
These ideologies were blamed for 1997, 2005 and 2012 xenophobic killings of non-locals by criminal gangs like the Kaya Bombo, Mlungu Nipe and the Mombasa Republican Council (MRC).
In 2017 polls, eight of the 30 MCAs elected in Mombasa trace their ancestry to counties outside Coast. This was an increase from five in 2013.
The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) records also show that five of the 12 nominated MCAs in Mombasa have an upcountry lineage. In 2013 they were two.
Statistics show that the number of aspirants from the upcountry vote bloc, who contested for various seats in Mombasa, grew in the 2017 elections compared to 2013. 
“It could be a good or bad thing. It is also breeding clannism that has exposed us to manipulation like in the last elections,” said Evans Mayaka.
Mayaka, who unsuccessfully vied for the Shanzu Ward seat in 2017, said there has been a sharp rise of upcountry voters in most parts of Mombasa, leading to an increase in the number of aspirants.
Prof Hassan Mwakimako of Pwani University says because of the increasing number of active upcountry voters, Coast leaders are forced to remain loyal to parties from outside the region.
For instance, he said, in Lamu West Constituency, aspirants from political parties with roots in central Kenya have a headstart because of the Mpeketoni vote bloc.
Dominated by the Kikuyu community, Mpeketoni boasts of over 17,000 voters that influence the elections in Lamu West and Lamu County in general.
Mwakimako said in Mombasa, leaders align themselves with either ODM or Wiper because of the high number of Luo, Luhya, Kamba and Kisii voters.
“The upcountry vote is not unified but in urban areas like Mombasa and where there is a significant population, it is a sway vote because they add the tally for politicians allied to them,” he said.
The sentiments were echoed by Prof Halim Shauri who said upcountry voters usually vote with their compatriots in their areas of origin, hence Coast has a hard time dropping upcountry parties.
Shauri said the upcountry voters are “faithful” to their ethnic leaders, but politicians from the region should go an extra mile, including alignment to political parties, to win them.
Promoters of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) have instructed their lawyers to file an appeal at the Court of Appeal next week and exuded confidence of success, adding that they believe the process is people driven.
BBI Secretariat co-chairmen Junet Mohamed and Dennis Waweru described the ruling as more focused on the taskforce and deliberately ignored the BBI Secretariat as the promoters of the Bill.
"The judges stopped the President who is not a promoter of the BBI Bill. We assure Kenyans that we shall continue to promote the constitutional amendment Bill until it is ratified by Kenyans," said Junet.
Yesterday, the secretariat released a list of stakeholders, meetings and number of written submissions that cumulatively helped build the BBI Bill that the courts declared unconstitutional.
They explained that before the Bill came into being, the 14 member BBI Taskforce led by the late Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji engaged deeply and widely including meeting over 400 elected leaders, present and past, prominent local voices from the community and youth and and the 755 handwritten submissions during public forums in the counties
They said the Haji-led taskforce received presentations from 123 individuals representing major institutions, including constitutional bodies and major stakeholders in the civil and private sector spaces and 261 individuals and organisations who emailed memoranda.
"Due care was taken to ensure that the face of Kenya was captured in this process: The Taskforce consulted more than 7,000 citizens from all ethnic groups, genders, cultural and religious practices and different social and economic sectors," read their statement.
The BBI secretariat said details of all individuals and groups that participated either in person or through
written memoranda are at pages 134 to 154 of the taskforce report.
And to prove further wide consultation, the team said the BBI Steering committee was subsequently appointed to validate the report of the taskforce and once again met Kenyans from all walks of life and those who contributed were captured in pages 161 to 173 of the Steering Committee’s Report.
"The validation exercise was conducted through the following content and report implementation, national Stakeholder Validation Fora. The Steering Committee held a total of 93 stakeholder consultation meetings at the KICC, Laico Regency hotel and at its offices in Nairobi," the statement added.
The foras, they explained, were attended by representatives from civil society, faith-based organisations, women’s groups, youth groups, persons with disability (PWD) groups, cultural leaders and Government and regional meetings took place across the country to discuss and validate the taskforce report.
On Friday, Junet said they respect the High Court's decision, but they do not agree with it and they will explore all options to ensure people-driven review of the 2010 Constitution.
"As law abiding leaders, we respect the decision of the court. But we don’t agree with it. Consequently, we are setting up a legal team to look into and appeal the ruling. We assure all Kenyans who believe in the BBI and it’s promise, not to give up. It’s is not over yet. We will fight to the bitter end for that dream to be realised," said Junet.
Waweru said the BBI process was people driven and Kenyans are will to change the Constitution to improve governance and take more resources to the grassroots.
"The proposed additional 70 constituencies will ensure more money is taken to the grassroots and improve the economic situation across the country. The hiccup encountered at the High Court will be over soon," he assured Kenyans.
ODM party leader Raila Odinga (pictured) may have disliked the court’s outcome on the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) judgement, but still intends to appeal the decision.
In a party statement on Saturday, Raila avowed: “We will calmly and respectfully move to the Court of Appeal to present our case as to why we think the High Court did not render the right verdict. We will do so with sobriety and with respect for our judges and courts.”
His sentiments breaking a two-day long silence on High Court’s ruling declaring the BBI process as unlawful, null, and void.
The former Premier however called for restraint from personalised attacks on the court and its members, especially the five judge-bench that delivered the Thursday ruling.
He stated: “We may disagree with the court but we must respect its ruling and its freedom to exercise its judgment as it understands the legal and constitutional matters before it.”
The team will be heading to the Appellate Court to seek a second opinion, in hopes that it shall revive ‘Reggae’.
Other BBI proponents including BBI Secretariat co-chair Junet Mohammed also vowed to appeal the decision.
In a televised address yesterday, Junet is quoted as saying: "We respect the decision of the court but we don't agree with it. It is not over yet; We will fight to the bitter end until a new Kenya is realised.”
Top legal minds including Bobby Mkangi, Charles Kanjama, Steve Ogolla and Elias Mutuma, however, believe the petitioners would have a low chance of success, while another section led by Prof. Ben Sihanya and Tom Joseph Kajwang, believe the lower court’s ruling would be overturned at the Appellate court.
Raila, an avid promoter of the BBI has in the past expressed that it must be subjected to a referendum.
“We agreed that the BBI must be subjected to a referendum because it entails a fundamental reorganization of the architecture of the Executive and Kenyans need to have a say in the reorganization,” he said in March.
Victim or villain? Wajir governor's long journey in corridors of justice
Wajir Governor Mohamud Abdi (left) and his Lawyer Paul Nyamodi during the impeachment debate at Senate chambers, parliament buildings, Nairobi.
The Senate select committee hearing impeachment proceedings against Wajir Governor Abdi Mohamud declined to summon family members after Members of the County Assembly accused them of graft.
Nyamira Senator Okong’o Omogeni-led team had been told by the MCAs through lawyer Ahmednasir Mohamed that the wife and children had some serious explaining to do about skewed payments made by the county government, which the county assembly believes were kickbacks running into millions of shillings.
So weighty are the MCAs' accusations against the Mohamud family that they claimed the county first lady was akin to the “Supreme Leader,” upon whose discretion lay the survival of senior technocrats in the county government.
“It is an open secret in Wajir County and far beyond that Mrs Kheira Omar is the supreme leader and it's always her way or the highway," Elnur-Tulatula MCA Abdullahi Issack told the Senate.
For Mohamud though, it is not just his integrity and career on the line – his family has been dragged into the murky world of politics – with his wife Kheria Omar, son Yusuf Mohammed Abdi and Daughter Ferhiya Mohammed key persons of interest.
As a reprieve, in its ruling on Wednesday, the House team declined to summon the family members but ordered that a fourth witness – businessman Osman Jibale – appear before the committee to shed more light on suspect payments to several of his companies and remittances allegedly made to the Mohamud family.
Jibale was, however, no show on Thursday, and was also unreachable on phone, when the assembly legal team attempted to call him.
Jibale, the MCAs claim is a distant nephew of the first lady – adding to governor Mohamud’s tribulations – as the 11-member team retreated to draft a report this weekend ahead of a likely tabling before the House tomorrow (Sunday).
Mohamud was impeached in a vote backed by 37 MCAs against 10. Among the charges facing the governor is a gross violation of the Constitution, corruption, abuse of office, poor service and gross misconduct.
The 11-member Senate team include Johnson Sakaja (Nairobi), Mwangi Githiomi (Nyandarua), Susan Kihika (Nakuru), Godana Hargura (Marsabit) and Okong’o Omogeni (Nyamira).
Others are Mithika Linturi (Meru), Fred Outa (Kisumu), Agnes Muthama (Machakos), Issa Juma (Kwale) and nominated Senators Petronilla Were and Christine Zawadi.
Mohamud has been in and out of court for the last three years having had his election challenged all the way to the Supreme Court.
The tumultuous start of Mohamud’s tenure as governor, would ironically, however, come to define his slightly over three years in power – fighting at the courts, and in the county assembly to remain in power – the climax of which is his current impeachment battle at the Senate.
When Justice Fred Mabeya quashed his election on January 12, 2018, there was a mix of celebration and uproar loaded in the clan and political undertones.
At the time, immediate former Governor Ahmed Abdulahi had petitioned the election on among other grounds electoral malpractice and Mohamud’s then alleged lack of a university degree, a requirement for all gubernatorial aspirants.
The Court of Appeal subsequently affirmed the nullification but at the Supreme Court, Mohamud recouped his seat.
Curiously – like classic echoes from the past, lawyer Ahmednassir Abdulahi was the same man that tormented his legal team up to the Supreme Court, while representing the former governor.
This week, Governor Mohamud told the Senate team: “I believe this impeachment is politically motivated with malice and witch-hunt.”  
Among critical defense witnesses, the governor called to the stand, was Wajir county acting secretary Abdulahi Hassan Maalim, who also accused the assembly of a political witch-hunts.
Maalim told the Senate team that Mohamud had worked extremely hard to improve service delivery in the county and denied claims of vacating his decision-making powers to his wife.
“I am not aware of the first lady being a member of the Executive Committee chairing any meetings. From 2018 to date, there is nowhere we have met the first faddy to discuss substantive matters of the county,” Maalim said.
Delay to enact referendum law led to killer blow for BBI
Majority Leader Amos Kimunya (centre) flanked by Minority Whip Hon Junet Mohammed (from left) Majority Whip Emmanuel Wangwe and Eldas MP Adan Keynan address the media after the Parliament passed the BBI Bill at the Parliament buildings, Nairobi. May 7, 2021.
The absence of a law to guide the referendum process was among the many issues that sank the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill 2020 on Thursday.
In their ruling, the five High Court judges found that the Bill birthed by the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) was launched when there was no legislation governing the process leading to and the conduct of a referendum.
“A declaration is issued that in the absence of the legislation or legal framework to govern the collection, presentation and verification of signatures and conduct of a referendum in the circumstances of this case renders the attempt to amend the Constitution of Kenya through the amendment Bill 2020 flawed,” presiding judge Joel Ngugi read the court’s decision.
The judges noted that Parliament had acknowledged the apparent vacuum and had moved to propose the required legislation to address the gaps.
This was in reference to the separate versions of a Referendum Bill sponsored by two National Assembly Committees
The Constitutional Implementation Oversight Committee (CIOC), which is chaired by Ndaragwa MP Jeremiah Kioni, fronted the Referendum Bill, 2020 in June last year.
The Justice and Legal Affairs Committee (JLAC), currently chaired by Kangema MP Muturi Kigano, has its version – the Referendum (No. 2) Bill, 2020 – which was tabled in Parliament by Baringo North MP William Cheptumo.
At the moment, the JLAC version, which was tabled first, is at the committee stage, with CIOC Bill still at the First Reading stage.
The National Assembly speaker Justin Muturi ruled that the JLAC proposal be given priority after the CIOC and JLAC failed to develop a consolidated Bill as advised by the speaker.
In his ruling issued in February this year, Muturi found that the JLAC proposal had resulted from a consultative process between the committee and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) dating back to 2015.
“Should the Bill sponsored by JLAC be withdrawn by the mover or get lost at any stage, the House will result to considering the Bill sponsored by the CIOC in the published form. This would be a last resort,” ruled Muturi.
As the dust settles on Thursday's ruling, Kioni faults the courts and Parliament, to some extent, for the current state of affairs.
Kioni believes that Parliament dragged its feet in enacting a referendum law.
“We should have processed this Bill much earlier. As a committee, we thought of a framework as the BBI Bill was processed. The House Business Committee should explain why it did not prioritise our Bill earlier," Kioni said.
He, however, said Thursday’s court ruling disregarded to the prevailing realities.
“The Constitution lists the necessary principles for conducting a referendum and it is the nitty-gritty that needs to be tidied up,” he said, terming the BBI process as one that captured the imagination of Kenyans.
"Kenyans must know that they have the sovereign right to say how they want things to be done. The judges should have cautioned the applicants for going to court too late. You cannot sit on your rights.” 
Both the JLAC and CIOC Bills prescribe the process of conducting a referendum, even as the CIOC proposal restricted itself to amendments resulting from a popular initiative.
As stipulated in the Constitution, both Bills state that a popular initiative shall be backed by at least a million registered voters.
As ruled on Thursday, IEBC will be required to verify the signatures through a proper framework.
The JLAC Bill further proposes that not more than a third of those who sign up shall be from one county.
Proposed amendment
“Voters in at least 24 counties shall be represented,” reads the JLAC referendum Bill in part, which also makes it mandatory to publish the names and signatures of those who support a draft Bill.
Both Bills had seemingly foreseen the likelihood of a multi-choice referendum.
“Each question to be determined during a referendum shall require the voter to select an answer that is either “yes” or “no”,” reads the Kioni Bill
The JLAC Bill, however, falls short of the judges’ verdict that each proposed amendment would be a separate question as it only allows that a proposed initiative may be challenged by another in the form of separate draft Bills.   
High Court ruling on BBI sets stage for challenging key government decisions
Justices Teresia Matheka, George Odunga, Joel Ngugi, Jairus Ngaah and Chacha Mwita at a Court in Milimani on Thursday, May 13, 2021, delivering the judgement on eight consolidated petitions challenging the BBI Referendum.
The landmark decision by the High Court to scuttle the Building Bridges Initiative has drawn sharp reactions from constitutional lawyers over its implication to the country.
Whereas some lawyers celebrated the decision as a bold statement by the Judiciary to stop an illegal process, other legal experts argued that the decision was illegal as the judges themselves violated the Constitution by failing to correctly apply the law in determining the issues raised.
According to lawyer Duncan Okatch, the judges opened a Pandora’s Box where we are likely to see several cases of people challenging some decisions that has been taken by President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC).
“The judges seemed to have even gone against decisions of other judges from the same court on interpretation of the Constitution on some of the issues raised. The implication is that we are likely to see several litigations against actions that have been taken by some institutions,” said Okatch.
From their final orders, which contained 23 declarations, legal experts said Justices Joel Ngugi, George Odunga, Jairus Ngaah, Chacha Mwita and Teresia Matheka judgements could be summarised into four broad sections which have far reaching consequences.
Top on the list was the declaration that President Kenyatta violated the Constitution and that he has no powers to initiate changes to the Constitution.
The judges also ruled that civil court proceedings can be instituted against the president or a person performing the functions of the Office of President during their tenure of office and that the steering Committee on the Implementation of the Building Bridges to a United Kenya Taskforce Report established by the president is an unconstitutional and unlawful entity.
Law Society of Kenya (LSK) President Nelson Havi says that the judgment is an indictment on President Kenyatta. He was of the view that the breach of the Constitution is a serious matter that he can be personally held accountable for.
According to him, the judge’s reference to the president as a Mr Uhuru amounts to stripping him of his status as a Head of State.
“There is no decision of the High Court that is clear on the misconduct of the president as this one. If it were in Israel or India, he would have resigned. You realised they have referred to him as a Mr Kenyatta; they have stripped him of the stature of a president,” said Havi.
Constitutional lawyer Kibe Mungai, however, said it will be a Herculean task as the president enjoys majority support in both houses of Parliament owing to his Handshake partner Raila Odinga.
“It is not very new, it is a clarification that they are doing that to show the president can be sued in his personal capacity and not about his functions, for example, if a president is to rob a bank, he will be sued as an individual and not as the president,” said Mungai.
Secondly, the lawyers said the judgement revolved around the process used by President Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga on promoting the BBI.
The judges had ruled that the entire constitutional change process promoted by the BBI Steering Committee is unconstitutional, null and void.
According to lawyer Duncan Savwa, the judges’ decision meant the BBI process was built on quicksand, and the promoters have to go back to the drawing board.
“The implication of the pronouncement on the changes proposed in the BBI is that there is nothing in it that can be implemented given that the whole process was a nullity from the beginning when they started collecting signatures,” said Savwa.
On the composition of the IEBC, Okatch stated that the judges got it wrong in declaring that the IEBC is not properly constituted.
He said although the judges meant to say that their decision is only limited to the BBI case, the interpretation will mean that so many decisions that have been made by the commission from the time there were only three commissioners are null and void.
“It means that even all the by-elections, which have been conducted by the commission are illegal and that they have no capacity to carry out any other election,” said Okatch.
Members of Parliament allied to the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) say they are not interested in initiating an impeachment process despite Thursday's scathing court verdict for President Uhuru Kenyatta.
The High Court, while upholding a consolidated case by eight petitioners, said the 14-member Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) steering committee, which was gazetted by President Uhuru, and led by the late Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji, was unconstitutional. 
The bench, led by Justice Joel Ngugi, said the president erred in initiating a process to change the constitution through a popular initiative. The court also observed that Uhuru was in breach of the constitution - an impeachable offence.
On Friday, MPs Alice Wahome (Kandara) and Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango) said the judgement was a big win for the constitution and sovereignty of the people of Kenya.
“We celebrate the judiciary. They have redeemed the nation from the shackles of dictatorship.  You cannot make the constitution-making process your own bid. The document belongs to Kenyans. Ordinary Kenyans have been talking about all these issues,” said Wahome.
Wahome said the Head of State should make amends after threatening the constitution by first approving the appointment of 41 new judges who were forwarded to him in mid-2019.
“Our team is not interested in the impeachment process but we need President Uhuru Kenyatta to come out clear on some issues. The president was found to have breached the integrity and provisions of chapter six of the constitution. The Head of State has violated the constitution. Let him start by appointing judges. He has failed an honorary duty,” Wahome added.
According to Osoro, the Bill was gazetted against the wishes of ordinary citizens.
“We are on record in parliament that we wanted to know who gave the president powers to initiate such a process. They have wasted public resources to change the law illegally, “said Osoro.
Osoro said the president should explain how monies spent in the process will be recovered, and provide an outline on how the court’s concerns shall be resolved.
Any Kenyan can push the motion to impeach the president, but for now we have better things to do.
“The arrogance by some leaders, surrounding the president, has been put on hold. The blame is squarely on the country’s Attorney General. The brave judges have given this country time to celebrate. This is a jurisprudence across the world. Give people options on what they want to change,” added Osoro.
Bonchari, Juja by-elections in limbo as AG heads to Court of Appeal
Two by-elections that are to be conducted next week may not happen following yesterday's High Court’s verdict that Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) has no quorum.
While pleading with the High Court judges to suspend their finding on the IEBC’s quorum for at least 14 days, IEBC lawyer Eric Gumbo argued that the electoral agency was handicapped and that the by-elections in Bonchari and Juja constituencies may not happen next week.
“On behalf of the IEBC, we have a unique concern that cannot wait. Because the court has touched on the quorum of the IEBC, the IEBC is put in an awkward position because of a by-election slated for Monday in Juja and another by-election in Bonchari,” the lawyer argued. He added that the Constitution required the commission to conduct a by-election within 90 days.
“The timelines within which the by-elections must be conducted have been defiled and are cast on stone. Because of that unique concern, if we will wait for the formal application, substantial prejudice will be prejudiced,” he said.
The decision by the five-judge bench not only affects the two by-elections, but they also have an implication on other by-elections conducted by the current commissioners.
Meanwhile, Attorney General Kihara Kairuki vowed to challenge the verdict on the Building Bridges Initiative before the Court of Appeal.
In his application seeking to have the five-judge bench suspend the implementation of its judgment to allow him to appeal, Justice Kihara explained that he was aggrieved with the court’s decision that the process was illegal, adding that public interest on the matter needed an interpretation by a higher court.
According to him, the Amendment Bill, which was challenged before Justices Prof Joel Ngugi, George Odunga, Jairus Ngaah, Teresiah Matheka and Chacha Mwita, was validated by 3 million Kenyans, passed by more than 24 counties, and subsequently passed by National Assembly and the Senate.
“It is in the public interest that pending the filing of the Appeal and to enable him to exercise his right of appeal, an interim stay of execution of the judgment be hereby stayed. It is critical to take judicial notice of the fact that the BBI process has been undertaken extensively, over 3 million signatures have been collected, to the critical constitutional processes such as consideration of the Bill by the county assemblies have been undertaken, the Amendment Bill has been passed by the majority members of the National Assembly and the Senate,” argued Solicitor General Ken Ogeto.
“Second relates to that the judgment you have just rendered raises fundamental questions with far-reaching implications. The Hon AG is dissatisfied with the judgment in its entirety, and he has firm instructions to move to the court of Appeal to challenge this decision. The public interest is a serious consideration in considering a relief in a matter such as this. I urge your honor to grant a stay of your judgment.”
Kabogo announces bid to run for president in 2022
Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo has said he will vie for the presidency in next year's elections.
Kabogo said he has what it takes to lead the country.
Speaking on Thursday, the former governor announced that he is in the process of registering a new political party on whose ticket he will seek the country's top job.
"The owner of Jubilee Party is set to retire next year. This means we need a new political party that will push the interests of Mt Kenya region," said Kabogo.
He added: "I don't agree with President Uhuru Kenyatta that the Kikuyu community should not field a presidential candidate next year. I don't think someone should look at me in terms of a community. I am an individual candidate and my name will be on the ballot." 
Kabogo said his will be a national party that will accommodate all Kenyans along.
"Mt Kenya region can produce a presidential candidate after which we can negotiate with other leaders as we head into 2022," he said.
Kabogo unsuccessfully vied for the Kiambu governorship in 2017 as an independent candidate after missing out on the Jubilee ticket which went to Ferdinand Waititu.
Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro kicked out of parliament for four days over claims of bribery
Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro was on Thursday suspended from the National Assembly for four days for claiming that MPs were bribed to vote for the Building Bridges Initiatives (BBI) Bill.
National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi had summoned Nyoro and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria to substantiate claims that some MPs were induced before they voted for the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020.
The Speaker asked the Kiharu MP if he indeed called members conmen, cowards, sell outs and traitors.
"Did you make those allegations or not?" Posed Muturi.
The MP said some members used their stomachs and were cowards, traitors and sell outs who bought and some voted because of the directives from their party leaders.
After protests by MPs, Muturi ruled to suspend Nyoro from the precincts of Parliament for the next four days. "Ndindi Nyoro is going to be suspended from this House including his office for the period of four days," he said.
This means that the Kiharu MP will not be allowed to visit his office at the continental House.
Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang said that Nyoro was putting the integrity of members at risk.  
Earlier, the Gatundu MP had sensationally admitted in an interview with the BBC that he was induced with a bribe to vote for Majority Leader Amos Kimunya.
Kuria told the BBC that inducement especially to pass government business was a normal affair in the National Assembly.
“It is not uncommon in Kenya for Members of Parliament to be paid or compensated to vote in a particular way, especially when the government has an interest in a matter,” said Kuria
He claimed that he received Sh100,000 to vote for Kimunya, to take over from former Majority Leader and Garissa Township legislator Aden Duale in June last year.
“When the new Majority Leader was appointed because they were not elected, we went to the Majority Leader’s office and received a USD 1000 gift, this is common in Parliament,” Kuria claimed.
The Gatundu South MP said he was willing to return the Sh100,000.  
Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi, cronies accused of squandering Covid-19 funds
Wajir County Assembly has accused the embattled Governor Mohamed Abdi of running down healthcare in the devolved unit.
In his submission, Habaswein Ward MCA Abdirahman Dahir told a senatorial impeachment committee that money allocated for the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic was misappropriated, exposing the locals to a dilapidated healthcare system.
The witness swore that the county boss and his cronies conspired to squander all the money allocated to the health docket.
The submissions were made as the impeachment hearing entered its second day.
“They did not spare a dime even during the time the county is faced with Covid-19. The money allocated for health care has been mismanaged with basic services such as free county ambulances in Eldas Constituency being available for those who can pay for it, money allocated for fuel and maintenance services also found its way to personal pockets,” claimed the witness.
But Lawyer Ndegwa Njiru, representing the governor, moved to dismantle some of the claims describing the witness as “having nothing useful to add other than lies presented in the affidavit”.
He questioned the witness qualifications to determine if healthcare was not being managed as required after Dahir claimed that he has been visiting various public hospitals in the county to establish their status.
The witness could also not provide documentation to prove that money allocated for the department was squandered by the executive.
The MCA claimed that it was an open secret that Wajir County’s health care system is at its worse since independence.
“The people of Habaswein Ward have not been spared by the greed and insatiable urge for money from the team of the governor and his cronies. The Habaswein Sub County Referral Hospital has been dragged into a crisis,” he alleged.
He claimed that the Griftu Sub-County Referral Hospital was shut down after its casual laborer’s downed their tools citing poor working conditions and delayed payment of their wages.
He added that most public hospitals in the county suffer from an acute lack of medical supplies and equipment needed for the day-to-day running of the facilities.
He said that despite the county government receiving funds from various sources in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic, there was little to show for the mobilised resources.
The monies included Sh5 billion conditional grant; funds from the ministry of health allocated for Covid-19 emergency allowance for frontline health care workers; Sh9,450,000 from the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA); and Sh194,000,00 appropriated from the Wajir County Supplementary Budget 2019/2020.
The witness claimed that the county government embarked on a shopping spree and began the journey for the creation of Covid-19 billionaires by squandering money it had received to combat the disease.
“This was done in blatant disregard of the guidelines and caps set by the Constitution of Kenya 2010, the County Government Act, the Public Finance Act and the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act No. 33 of 2015 and the Records Disposal Act Chapter 14 of the Laws of Kenya,” he added.
Earlier, the defense lawyers sought to discount submission by Diff Ward MCA Shueb Bare Ahmed, who linked the family to several companies that traded with the county government.
Lawyer Njiru pushed the witness to provide any documentation linking the said firms to the family members of the governor. The witness could not provide form CR12 to prove directorship.
The defense team also sought to know the source of bank statements that the witness used to demonstrate how the companies wired kickbacks to the governor’s wife, Khaire Omar, immediately after they received payments.
 “It is your evidence that the first lady has been running affairs of the county. Which department of the county; the executive or the assembly? You have said that for you to be paid you have to seek the blessings of the first lady, what kind of blessings?” posed the lawyer.
“I want you to take us to that particular accounts that you said have received the monies. How did you get hold of the bank statement?’ he went on.
The MCA said he obtained the documents from a whistleblower, who he could not name.
The witness could also not provide documentary evidence that the governor’s spouse chaired several meetings of the executive.
When pressed, he said some of the meetings were informal as they took place at the governor’s private home.
The committee suggested that they may consider writing to banks named in the transactions to authenticate bank statements provided by the county assembly.
“There has been question on the source of documents. I want to be on record that if we compel the said institutions to provide the documents, is it what you have attached that we will get?’ Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja posed.
Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe has said the BBI proposals will change Kenya's political structure and secure everybody's interests.
Wangwe said the overwhelming endorsement of the BBI Bill in both houses of Parliament demonstrates that the president is fully in charge and his ‘foot soldiers’ are keen to deliver on his agenda.
“By garnering a rare more than two-thirds in the National Assembly and the Senate, President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga have flexed their political muscle and showed they are the real heavyweights,” he said.
The legislator who doubles up as the Majority Chief Whip said proposals in the BBI Bill will be a game-changer in Kenyan politics.
“The proposed sharing of power in the Executive and strengthened oversight roles will alter governance in a big way and the winner will be the common man. The new structure will also promote inclusivity and make more communities feel represented in the highest offices,” he said.
His sentiments come as the High Court is set to rule on the BBI process today.
Wangwe said after the verdict, BBI proponents will go to mwananchi and convince them to support the draft ahead of the referendum.
“We are ready to campaign for the BBI proposals and bring more Kenyans on our side. We must continue the pursuit of a more progressive society. More money is being taken to the ground through the BBI proposals, hence our support,” he said.
He said politics is about numbers where leaders stand to be counted on a particular issue.
“Before the vote in both houses, there was talk of resistance to the BBI Bill, but when the lawmakers were called to vote, they endorsed the proposed constitutional amendments overwhelmingly. This also shows Kenyans are ready to improve the 2010 Constitution for a more just and progressive future,”  he said.
The approval of  the referendum bill by lawmakers allied to Deputy President William Ruto has  brought to the fore the reality of politics as a competition for allocation and retention of resources.
By voting in support of the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill 2020 – after opposing the document for more than a year – a section of Ruto-supporting MPs and Senators gave the strongest indication that they can easily switch camps ahead of the 2022 elections based on personal and regional interests.
Some key DP allies in Coast, North Eastern, Mt Kenya, Western and Kisii voted in support of the Bill, a rude awakening likely to send the DP back to the drawing board to identify dependable foot soldiers ahead of the succession battle.
Of the 320 MPs who voted in the second reading, 235 voted in support, 83 voted against while two abstained.
On Wednesday, a section of Ruto allies described their colleagues who voted in support of the BBI as political flip-floppers and cowards, who cannot be relied on for the 2022 battle.
But others claimed that fear of backlash forced some MPs to back the Bill since their counties were benefiting from additional resources and constituencies while others claimed state intimidation.
But allies of President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga said the vote was a lesson to Ruto that he cannot win votes outside Rift Valley without working with regional kingpins.
They claimed that Ruto had been relying on political lightweights, who can not stand up against their regional supremos to deliver votes.
“Definitely both camps will undergo some political realignments ahead of the polls. I was not surprised by some of my colleagues. But it is good to have a stand; because if you have been singing anti-BBI songs but when it comes to voting, you go YES; people will say you do not have a stand,” said Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa, a Ruto ally.
“Voting YES means you agree with the document. They have weakened themselves and are people who cannot be depended on. You cannot be saying any all this time and when it comes to voting you say YES. That was cowardice of them,” he added.
Garissa Township MP Aden Duale said some MPs, who were opposed to the Bill but voted in support of it, were scared of political backlash from their backyard as they stand to benefit from the additional constituencies.
Duale was one of the few MPs from North Eastern, who voted against the Bill last week on Thursday.
“When the rubber meets the road, I will not think twice on my political affiliation, political formation or personal interest; I will think of the interest of Muslim community and by extension Somali community,” said Duale.
“I have been consistent in defending the right of the people and I will not think about my political affiliation even if I am the only one standing. Without any contradiction, among the things in BBI that I do not agree with is on the issue of representation and resources.  If my region gained in terms of resources, I would have voted yes,”  he added.
Duale disclosed that MPs backing Ruto were told to make independent decisions based on how their regions were going to be affected by the document.
Aldai MP Cornelly Serem said that it was the creation of the media that Ruto was opposed to the BBI Bill.
Serem noted that Ruto and his allies only raised issues with certain clauses and did not ask MPs to vote against the document.
“We did not tell people to vote in a certain way. We told our people to look at their regional interests. It was never a contest. There was no time we said we were going to vote No,” said the MP who voted against the Bill.
Some of the notable Ruto allies that voted in support of the Bill include Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati), Feisal Bader (Msambweni), Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), David Sankok (nominated), Kareke Mbiuki (Maara), Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango), William Chepkut (Ainabkoi), Purity Kathambi (Njoro), David Gikaria (Nakuru East) and Malulu Injendi.
Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu said that the DP was depending on the wrong people for his 2022 presidential bid. He claimed that most of the MPs cannot sacrifice for Ruto and were only with him for personal benefit.
“What they did means that they can switch camps at any moment. Very few people are ready to sacrifice for standing with Ruto, they will all vanish if their survival is threatened,” said Mr Wambugu.
“The people the DP has are not committed to his course. The vote shows that the DP does not have a hold of people outside Rift Valley. He will have to go to the regional kingpins that he has been avoiding if he is serious with his bid. The vote has essentially made him realise that politics is local,” he added.
The Uhuru ally said that Ruto can only bank on Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa and Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira) from Mt Kenya.
Cotu boss Francis Atwoli, a proponent of BBI, said the vote reduced the DP to a community leader, who has no support outside his Rift Valley turf.
Mr Atwoli said that those who do not believe in the BBI will be reduced to political spectators in Uhuru’s succession.
“Politics is like a heavy downpour, when it rains the water will always find its natural course. That is exactly what happened in the National Assembly. If you don’t believe in the handshake you will be a spectator in the succession politics,” he said.
“The landscape of 2022 is now taking shape and the vote shows that he has no committed political allies; after this vote he was reduced a community leader. Political realignments are out there for everyone to see,” added Atwoli.
He said that those who rely on huge political rallies as a sign of popularity will be shocked when the people cast the ballot for the next president.
National Assembly Minority Whip Junet Mohammed said that Ruto has been banking on the wrong people for his political bid.
Junet claimed that some of the MPs were with the DP for “tokens” but will leave him when elections are called.
“These are people who are with him because of his money, at the end of it all they will go back to supporting the Handshake. Look at the total number of MPs in Central; only 10 per cent are with him based on the vote,” he said.
Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju said he was not surprised by the turn of events.
“A politician can change anytime. Very few politicians can be relied on,” said Tuju.
The powerful Jubilee Party organ has endorsed the purge of three MPs for opposing the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) and supporting the ideals of other parties.
The National Management Committee (NMC) yesterday directed the party’s disciplinary committee to begin the process that could lead to the expulsion of Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, Nominated MP Cecily Mbarire and Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga.
In yesterday’s meeting at Jubilee headquarters, the NMC noted that the Gatundu South MP has been espousing the ideals of the People’s Empowerment Party (PEP) in contravention of the Political Parties Act.
Jubilee vice chair David Murathe said they had zeroed in on Mr Kuria for supporting George Koimburi, a PEP candidate, for the Juja by-election yet Jubilee has a candidate.
The by-election in Juja was occasioned by the demise of MP Francis Waititu popularly know as Wakapee on February 22 and Jubilee fronted his widow, Susan Njeri Waititu. 
The by-election is scheduled for May 18.
Mr Murathe said the MP has been actively campaigning for Mr Koimburi.
“We have asked the Jubilee disciplinary committee to take up the matter and summon him to answer to the accusations. If he is culpable, we will remove him from the party through expulsion; we must retain discipline in our party,” said Murathe.
He said Ms Omanga and Ms Mbarire will face the disciplinary committee for voting against the Constitution (Amendment) Bill, 2020.
Murathe said support for BBI was a party position and therefore those who voted against it did so in disregard of the same.
During debate preceding the voting at the National Assembly, Mbarire was among the MPs who passionately spoke out against the BBI Bill, arguing it clawed back the gains of the 2010 Constitution.
“The minute we have the Executive be the head of Parliament and the Judiciary, then this would be the beginning of the end of democracy. This Bill takes away the gains we fought for with our lives and sweat and blood and should it pass, one day we will regret our decision,” she said.
She added, “Where will we get justice if a judge knows that they could easily lose their job?” 
Senator Omanga opposed the Bill, saying it would put more pressure on the ‘hustlers’ who were already suffering because of the poor economic situation.
“The Bill will see over-taxation of the hustlers. I oppose it,” said Omanga.
For their opposition to the Bill, Mbarire and Omanga will have a date with the Lumatete Muchai-led Jubilee disciplinary committee.
This will not be the first time Omanga is facing the committee. Last year, she was among five other nominated senators who were accused of openly defying their party leader during the Senate leadership purge. The others were Mary Seneta, Falhada Iman, Naomi Waqo, Alice Milgo and Isaac Mwaura.
The National Executive Council had endorsed their removal, but the Political Parties and Dispute Tribunal saved them.
The six were accused of snubbing a State House meeting last year where President Kenyatta had sought to ratify removal of Deputy President William Ruto’s allies, Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and his Nakuru counterpart Susan Kihika from Leader of Majority and Majority Whip positions, respectively.
They were replaced by West Pokot Senator Samuel Poghisio and his Murang’a counterpart Irungu Kang’ata.
Also targeted for removal is UDA Secretary-General Veronica Maina, who Jubilee has accused of serving in positions of two political outfits.
Before joining UDA, Ms Maina held a senior position in Jubilee.
Murathe said they had also agreed as NMC that they were interested in the party resolution mechanism that UDA had sought for after they wrote to the Registrar of Political Parties seeking dissolution of a 2018 partial coalition pact with PDR, now UDA.
UDA has written to the registrar declaring a dispute with Jubilee following the move to end the coalition pact.
“As provided for in the coalition agreement deposited in your office on May 30, 2018, in compliance with Section 10 (4) of the Political Parties Act No 11 of 2012 Schedule 3 thereof, and further pursuant to provisions of Article 6 of the said Coalition agreement, we have therefore declared dispute,” Maina said.
Last year, the party removed MPs allied to Ruto from plum positions in Parliament, including former National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki and Meru Senator Mithika Linturi. 
Others who were shown the door were Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei, Bomet’s Christopher Lang’at and John Kinyua of Laikipia, all chairmen of key Senate committees.
Garissa MCAs have started the process of removing Speaker Ahmed Ibrahim Abass from office over alleged gross misconduct.
About 36 ward reps have already signed the motion accusing the speaker of gross violation of the Constitution.
Led by Maalimin MCA Mohamud Aden, the mover of the motion, the MCAs said yesterday they were waiting for the assembly clerk to officially notify the speaker of their intention to impeach him.
“We have officially filed a notice of motion by way of impeachment motion in accordance with the Constitution,” said the statement read by Aden on behalf of his colleagues.
The MCAs also accused the speaker of incompetence and gross misconduct, saying he has been running the House like a "kiosk" in total disregard of the procedures.
At the same time, Dadaab MCA Mohamed Abdi said the motion was not about clan or politics.
“We would like to assure members of the public and the executive that there will be no interruption of services as we execute the legislative process,” he said.
This is not the first time the speaker is facing an impeachment motion. Early last year, a group of MCAs started the impeachment process, but it flopped after they failed to reach the threshold required.
The speaker, who is the former Ijara MP, is a close confidant of Governor Ali Korane.
Efforts to reach him on phone were futile. 
WRC releases Safari Rally Kenya list ahead of the June showpiece
The forthcoming Safari Rally Championship in Naivasha has attracted strong names from around the globe who are gearing up for the June 24-27 competition.
The official list, released by the World Rally Championship (WRC) on Friday has Elfyn Evans who is fresh from winning the WRC Portugal leg.
Evans will be up in arms against world champion Sébastien Ogier who will also be participating under the same Toyota Gazoo brand.
Estonia speed merchant Ott Tanak will lead the Hyundai attack that also has Thierry Neville, considered to be the competition dark horse according to some rally pundit.
Other global manufacturers in the mix are M-Sport Ford team that to be spearheaded by Gus Greensmith whose pace notes will be called by Renaud Jamoul.
Also, Toksport has entered Marco Bulacia to search for their glory.
Back at home, Carl Tundo, fresh from winning the Equator Rally, will be Kenya's hope in his VW Polo R5.
The Minti Motorsport team member is out to stretch his two Safari wins he recorded before the WRC series left Kenya for 19 years.
Other Kenyan's in the WRC saddle are Aakif Verani, Tejveer Rai, Karan Patel and Onkar Rai.
They will all compete in the homologated R5 machines.
World champion Ogier will lead the Toyota Gazoo Racing gladiators in the much anticipated major event in the country.
The Frenchman, whose pace-notes will be called out by compatriot Julien Ingrassia is hungry for an eighth title which he wants to accomplish in a Yaris brand.
"The Toyota Yaris is a car for the super-boys, it's a masterpiece of Japanese engineering,” WRC Safari Rally CEO Phineas Kimathi noted when the machine, to be steered by Ogier at the gruelling Safari, was unveiled in Kenya last week.
To make his intention known, Ogier has already won two legs of the 2021 WRC; the Rallye Monte Carlo and the Croatia Rally.
Ogier is also out for an eighth WRC Driver's Championship title following his victories in the category in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2020.
The 38-year old also has 51 wins in the WRC and seven titles of which six are consecutive wins.
The feats place him as the second most successful WRC driver, after former Citroën WRC teammate Sébastien Loeb (nine titles).
Other drivers in the star-studded Toyota mix are Elfyin Evans of Wales to be navigated by Scott Martin of the United Kingdom, Kalle Rovanpera of Finland to be assisted by compatriot Jonne Halttunen and Katsuta Takamoto of Japan who will be guided by Dan Barritt of Great Britain behind the wheel.
Rovanpera is son of Hari Rovanpera, who finished second in the last WRC Safari in 2002.
The Toyota lineup comes just days after South Korean manufacturer Hyundai announced their list for the Safari.
The Hyundai Shell Mobis World Rally Team (i20) will be spearheaded by Estonian speed merchant Tanak.
Tanak, who won his WRC maiden title in 2019 has gone toe to toe with Ogier this season.
He has already won the second leg of the 2021 WRC in Finland.
Other drivers in the Hyundai mix are Thierry Neuville of Belgium to be navigated by Martijn Wydaeghe and Dani Sordo of Spain whose pace notes will be read by Borja Rozada.
Rally purists believe the rocky Sleeping Warrior stage in Naivasha will determine who goes home with the Safari title.
From the ARC championship held at the venue last month, it was evident that anyone who wanted to conquer the tough, muddy, rocky terrains needed considerable time to focus before launching the ferocious attack like a lion.
Arguably, many local fans will throw their weight behind Ogier since Kenya is a Toyota nation, owing to the availability of the brand spare parts.
Local drivers including Carl Tundo, Onkar Rai, Tejveer Rai and Karan Patel are expected to give the global drivers a run for their money if not the bragging rights.
Why climate action is at the heart of Eldoret City Marathon
When at least 600 athletes line up at the third edition of Eldoret City Marathon on Sunday, one race, which is tree planting will be climaxing.
Since the inaugural edition in 2018, the race has lived to its Climate Action theme.
This year alone, three million tree seedlings are expected to be planted prior to and after the race, in areas around Eldoret, the athletics town christened the ‘The City of Champions’ because a majority of world-beaters live and train there.
But why Climate Action?
The Local Organising Committee (LOC) says the millions of trees will be planted in areas where athletes train increasing oxygen supply, a key component in running.
LOC chairman Andrew Chelogoi said the tree planting events are aimed at sustaining fresh air in Eldoret town in areas near major training bases.
Chelogoi said for the last three years, the race’s management, with support from its key sponsors, has consistently sustained the Climate Action theme.
“It is not only about the race. Our athletes should train in conserved environments and Eldoret City Marathon is aiming at planting three million trees this year alone,” the LOC chairman said.
Last year, the race was cancelled but was marked by tree planting at Kapseret forest, which is one of the key training bases in Uasin Gishu.
Kaptagat, Burnt Forest, Kipchoge Keino Stadium, Moi University grounds and the University of Eldoret are among key training areas in the town where the country’s athletes train.
The neighbouring counties of Elgeyo Marakwet and Nandi are known for producing the finest talents.
Retired athlete Daniel Komen told Standard Sport in a recent interview that training in Eldoret and other towns was becoming a health risk thanks to pollution.
“I urge athletes to train in areas away from town. It is risky to train in places with polluted air,” he warned.
Uasin Gishu Kenya Forest Service ecosystem conservator Thomas Kiptoo said at least one million trees will be planted on Saturday, just hours to the race.
“The one million trees will be planted in all streets of Eldoret town on Saturday as part of the official opening ceremony of the marathon,” Kiptoo said.
On Saturday, as preparations for the race entered the home stretch and as focus shifted to management of crowds at the finish line, Joseph Chemuren, representing Athletics Kenya in the LOC said Anti-Doping of Kenya (ADAK) officials will play a central role in the race.
Chemuren said open grounds at the TAC Centre, near the finish line, will be utilised for the VIP podium, athletes resting area and as space for race officials whose services will not be necessary at the finish line.
 “We now have a clear layout of the finish line and the final checks are on course. All the Covid-19 protocols for the race will be adhered to,” Chemuren said.
Race officials who will come into contact with athletes during the race must strictly wear face masks,” he said.
LOC secretary, Professor David Some says: “This is the only confirmed event to take place in the country this year and the world is watching. That is why we are careful.”
No soul under the sun can match –with precision and class –the hard work and determination Amos Kipruto summoned to excel in marathons.
Kipruto, the world marathon bronze medalist, is not your typical Kenyan athlete.
From childhood, Kipruto nursed lofty dreams: to stage excellent shows in athletics. And it has come to pass.
Kipruto, who put on hold his athletics desires to concentrate on academics, seems to follow in the counsel of American author Les Brown who once said: “Shoot for the moon. Even if you miss it, you will still land among the stars.”
The 2016 Rome Marathon winner still draws inspiration from former world marathon record holder Paul Tergat.
Runners up Berlin Marathon 2018 Amos Kipruto after training at Kapsabet Nandi County. 28.05.2021.
He said he picked his running skills from Tergat and former Olympic marathon champion, the late Samuel Wanjiru.
The 28-year-old athlete said he watches their clips online especially ahead of major races.
“I love their fighting spirit especially in the final stages of races. They produced unexpected victories. In most cases, I watch their clips to pick some tactical skills,” said Kipruto, a runner up at the 2018 Berlin Marathon.
His memorable clip is that of Wanjiru battling Ethiopia’s Tsegaye Kabede at the 2010 Chicago Marathon.
“In that clip, Wanjiru was behind at 35km to 40km but he produced a powerful kick in the last two kilometres.  It clearly shows that while competing in a marathon, you must have courage and stamina to run faster than expected,” he said.
Positive lessons he learned from the late Sammy Wanjiru, former Olympic marathon winner.
While I was a young boy, Kipruto said he used to compete in inter-school games lining up in 5000m. 
“By then, the late Sammy Wanjiru was at the top level. I loved watching him compete. His videos are being watched by many people up to now. His running style was wonderful. And luckily, the coach who trained him is now my coach,” he said.
Kipruto, who finished second when Eliud Kipchoge set the world marathon record at the 2018 Berlin Marathon, said his training runs smoothly.
“My body is responding well. I am ready for the Olympic Games. I started preparing it in April and all has been well.
“My coach and my management follow every step I make in my training. I am under no pressure at the moment. I decided to put training a priority first and then plan for the race day. Preparations will determine the results.
“I am happy to race again with Eliud Kipchoge, who is my mentor. I competed against Kipchoge when he set the marathon world record at the Berlin Marathon in 2018."he said  
I am grateful to race against the record holder and Olympic champion, I really get inspired a lot.
“I follow his footsteps when it comes to competitions. Kipchoge is now unbeatable,” he said.
Mercy Cherono gears up to make a strong return
After battling injuries for two years, 2013 world 5000m silver medallist Mercy Cherono is gearing up for Tokyo Olympic Games national trials at Kasarani Stadium on June 17-19.
The 29-year-old, who finished fourth at the 2016 Rio Olympic Games in the 5000m event behind her compatriots – gold medalist Vivian Cheruiyot and Hellen Obiri, and Ethiopian Almaz Ayana – will battle for the prized ticket to the Olympic Games that run in Tokyo, Japan, from July 23 to August 8.
“After the Rio Olympics, I had a frightening foot fracture that made me miss out on the 2017 and 2018 seasons. I had to lay back from competitions and I decided to start a family and in the process, I had a baby girl,” Cherono said. “Immediately after the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak last year, I retreated back and continue training.
She added: “We are now training well and our focus is on the national trials. Training at home in Kericho and Kapsabet is good for me. I opted to train in Kapsabet so that I can stay closer to my coach and have better training sessions."
You know training closer to the coach makes things easier.
He monitors all areas of weakness and sees if I can improve. 
But her beautiful looks and the latest hairdo will no doubt make a statement about her off-the-track lifestyle, just as she did when she won 5000m gold at the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, Scotland – without much fuss.
Cherono is no longer that rural girl from the far-flung Kipajit village in Bomet County but a fashion model. She is gorgeous in her running kit and absolutely stunning in an evening gown!
When she threw down the gauntlet to the Commonwealth nations’ participants, one point came out clearly inside Hampden Park in Glasgow: the world’s male sporting enthusiasts cooed with envy as the beauty queen headed to the start line.
Cherono is the World Youth and World Junior champion as well as the world senior silver medalist in 5000m
Cherono, whose beauty and style are drooled over the global athletics scene, did not disappoint her fans when she blew away her rivals.
She is the World Youth and World Junior champion as well as the world senior silver medalist in 5000m and her hairdo with colours of the Kenyan flag always causes a stir and admiration among the menfolk across the globe.
She is no doubt a perfect definition of a billboard girl as her hair brings out her personality. 
I had good performance as a junior, winning world cross country junior championships twice. 
"It really helped transition to senior level. I had a nice build up given that athletics is a process. You can’t just change instantly. You have to navigate slowly."she added
I have been out of competitions for almost two years due to injury.
 During this period, I have learned to become patient and how to multi task motherhood and athletics.
I hope to make the Olympic team for the second time. 
"But the biggest hurdle is the national trials. At the 2016 Rio Olympics, we managed top two positions. I hope we can make 1-2-3 this time."said Cherono
“I am planning to step up to road races and even marathon in future. And that will depend on what my coach will advise and the body response,” said Cherono.
The long wait is almost over. Eldoret, the spiritual home of world athletics, will soon get back to life – though under strict Covid-19 restrictions.
No fans, top notch competition and world class pay out welcome you to Eldoret City Marathon on Sunday. Mark your calendar.
Expectation and excitement will no doubt remain visible since it is the first 42km race to be held in Kenya since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic last year.
Athletics analysts say the third edition of Eldoret City Marathon will serve as a manual to guide the planning and execution of marathons amid the Covid-19 pandemic.
The Sh3.5 million winner’s prize – the highest pay out in Africa at the moment – will certainly send the athletics world into ecstasy.
It has Abott World Marathon Major (WMM) series recognition and became the only race in Kenya to attain such status even as it eyes a World Athletics label.
Yesterday, focus shifted to the finish line as preparations for the marathon entered homestretch.
Local organising committee (LOC) chairman Andrew Chelogoi issued strict guidelines aimed at minimising large crowds at the finish line while staging a good race.
Chelogoi said a maximum of 100 people will be allowed at the finish line between Ziona Mall and TAC Centre grounds.
Among the 100 people to get access to the finish line, he said, are a restricted number of VIPs, individuals representing sponsors and journalists.
“We want to set the mark on enforcement of Covid-19 protocols in competitions and that is why we are restricting the number of people at the finish line to only 100,” Chelogoi said.
“We will be having a team of doctors and nurses deployed by our sponsors and the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH) to respond to emergencies,” he added.
The LOC said only ten cars ferrying VIP guests among them Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed and several governors led by Jackson Mandago will be allowed to the podium near the finish line at specified times.
Chelogoi said the VIP podium where 200 guests traditionally sit, will only take 60 people to uphold social distancing.
“We are asking fans to watch the race on KTN News because we will not allow crowds at the finish line,” he added.
Moses Tanui, the race director and two-time Boston Marathon winner, said only persons with special passes will be allowed to the finish line.
“All areas near the Zion Mall will be a no go zone. It’s only a few people with special identification badges,” Tanui said.
“We will have a team of first aiders and health workers on one section and a space has been reserved for the timer to pass.”
Kenya's Elias Ng’eno thrills crowd with good show in trials
Elias Ng’eno, an athlete based at Global Sports Communication camp in Kaptagat, thrilled the small crowd in Nyayo Stadium yesterday as he produced a good show at the Athletics Kenya pre-Olympic trials.
Ng’eno ran a brilliant 1:43.84 in men’s 800m contest to qualify for Tokyo Olympic Games. Hillary Biwot (1:44.80), Noah Kibet (1:45.11) and Edwin Melly (1:45.51) followed. 
“I feel happy after making the qualifying time for the Olympic Games (1:44.80). It has not been easy but I want to thank my coaches at Global Sports Communication. I will get back to training and hopefully make the Olympic team,” said Ng’eno.
Vincent Keter (3:38.66) won men’s 1500m race ahead of Kamati Etieng (3:39.61) and 2011 world 1500m silver medalist Silas Kiplagat (3:40.00). 
Elias Ng’eno celebrates winning the 800M final during the Athletics Kenya Pre-Trials for Olympics at Nyayo National stadium in Nairobi on May 29, 2021
“First time to win in the senior category. My hope to represent the country at the Olympics and the World Under 20. I have been training alongside Timothy Cheruiyot (world 1500m champion) and he has been an inspiration. All I need to do is improve on my endurance,” Vincent Keter, who has an Olympic qualification time of 3:34.59.
AS expected, Michael Kibet won men’s 5000m in 13:21.39 ahead of Emmanuel Kiprop (13:22.81) and Victor Kiprop (13:26.27)
“I am happy for the win. My focus is to train for the Olympic trials. It is a good improvement from what I ran on Thursday when I clocked 13:34 but today I managed 13:21. 
Weightlifting: Maurice Aromo wins silver to bring Kenya's medal tally to 14
Kenya team captain Maurice Aromo lived up to expectations by winning silver in the men 89kg category at the ongoing Africa Weightlifting Championship cum Tokyo Olympic Qualifier at Ruaraka Sports Club in Nairobi.
He scored 102 points in the Snatch and 132 points in the Clean and Jerk for total 234 points.
Aromo finished second behind 22-year old Algerian gold medallist Touairis Faris who set a new African record in the Snatch.
Faris had a whooping 165kg lift to surpass the previous 164kg mark that has been a hard nut to crack.
In Clean and Jerk, the Algerian recorded 170kg to take his total tally to 335 points that earned him the gold.
"I feel happy to have won the medal, it's my second African prize in the category," Aromo told The Standard Sports.
"I was playing safe because I didn't want any injuries," he said.
Aromo, who is a mechanic by profession, stepped up training for three months ahead of the competition, he is glad that the effort has paid off.
Despite his feat, Aromo, just like any other medalists in the championship, will have to wait until next month to know their Tokyo Olympic fate as there are other similar contests ongoing in Europe and the Americas after which the International Weightlifting Federation (IWF) will harmonise the results.
"I'm optimistic that after the final entry by the IWF I shall be in the Tokyo bound squad," Aromo said.
Aromo's feat now brings Kenya's medal tally to 14 in total including eight bronze and six silvers.
Caroline Wangeci (women 55kg), Winny Langat (women 59kg), Rachael Achieng (women 64kg) and Janet Oduor (women 45kg) are other Kenyan players who have not missed the medal rush.
Aromo says he will rest for two days before embarking on training at the Kitengela Gym as he waits for the Olympics.
His weekly schedule will include Snatch and strength work on Monday, Clean and Jerk and strength on Tuesday.
Wednesday is for power workout while Thursday is his rest day.
He returns to the gym on Friday for some strength and conditioning training while Saturday is for mobility and flexibility workouts.
Aromo won his first silver at the 2018 Africa Championship in Mauritius.
He failed to qualify for the Rio Olympics in Brazil in 2016.
"I was dedicated to learning the sport more.
"It was sheer hard work and consistency in training for seven years that helped me to win the medal in Mauritius," he said.
The medal inspired the father of two who now has great confidence in the discipline.
Aromo strongly believes he will be a continental champion some day.
The 32-year old focused lifter finished fifth overall at the Africa Games in Morocco in 2019.
In the next five years, Aromo dreams to be a continental champion.
Since he started to captain the national team in 2019 in Morocco, Aromo has learnt key lessons in life among them leadership skills.
"I feel great and honoured to be the skipper of Kenya team. I'm constantly reminded to be a responsible citizen."
"I did not play the game as an amateur, i joined the sport as a senior at 21years when I bumped on some weightlifters in the gym at Kitengela." Kenya Team Captain Maurice Aromo.
Weightlifting: Kenyans Langat and Oduor strike silver as Achieng bags bronze
Triple Africa silver medallist Winny Langat (women 59kg) and new entrant Janet Oduor (45kg) bagged silver medals at the Africa Weightlifting Championships cum Olympic qualifiers in Nairobi last evening. 
Teenager Rachael Achieng won bronze in women’s 64kg. Lang’at scored 61 in Snatch and 81 in Clean and Jerk for 142 points.
Odour scored 42 points in Snatch and 50 in Clean and Jerk for 92 points. Achieng, who is also the Youth and Junior Africa bronze medalist, had 60 and 70 in the categories for 130.
Kenya’s Anthony Libasia scored 117 points in Snatch and 137 in Clean and Jerk to finish fourth with 254 points in men 73kg.
The category was won by Ben Hnia of Tunisia who amassed 330 points.
 At the same time, Africa Zone Two champion Wilkister Nadzuwah Nyiro will be in action this afternoon in the women 76kg.
She longs to improve her Clean and Jerk personal best that currently stands at 82kg.
Her personal best in Snatch is 70kg. “I am ready for the competition, it’s now or never. I want another gold,” she said. Nyiro has been training at Alpha Fit Gym in Nairobi and in Kitengela since returning from the 2019 African Games in Morocco where she finished seventh overall.
She believes she stands a great chance in the ongoing qualifier owing to the fact that she has been conducting her exercises under supervision of five weightlifting coaches and three others for strength and body conditioning.
“I feel my technique is good. I am now waiting to replicate the same on the podium on Saturday.”
Nyiro was introduced to the sport by coach David Adeyomo who guided Kenyan Olympian James Omondi Adede to qualify for the 2016 Rio Olympics. 
“Apart from embracing the sport, I have also taken the initiative to mentor young players from Thika,” Nyiro said.
Meanwhile Olympic coronavirus guidelines are being drawn up for each separate sports competition, a Tokyo 2020 senior official said yesterday. 
Organisers have released Covid-19 prevention measures. 
Triple Africa silver medallist Winny Langat (women 59kg) and new entrant Janet Oduor (45kg) bagged silver medals
No pressure for AFC Leopards coach Patrick Aussems ahead of Mathare United fixture
AFC Leopards coach Patrick Aussems has urged his charges to remain focused as he aims to help the club end its 22-year Premier League title drought.
According to the Belgian, he will not let anything block his vision, not even a temporary place at the top of the league standings for a day or two.
Ingwe have a realistic chance of moving joint-top of the FKF Premier League table with KCB (36 points) today if they beat struggling Mathare United at Ruaraka Grounds.
But Aussems has strongly cautioned against premature celebrations that might come with their temporary ascendency to the summit.
A victory with a big margin (4 goals plus) at Ruaraka will see Ingwe lead the table for the first time in many months.
However, the former Simba SC coach wants Ingwe players and fans to stick their eyes on the big prize which is to win the elusive title at the end of the season.
“If we win on Thursday, then we will be at the top, but (being at the) top is not important right now,” Aussems said after his side was held to a barren draw by Posta Rangers last weekend.
And even as Aussems lamented poor officiating and the state of the pitch for their stalemate against the mailmen, he knows this is equally an important game for Mathare United, who are coming off a 2-2 draw with Nzoia Sugar.
But he believes their one game in hand gives them a chance to continue piling pressure on the leading pack as the race for the CAF Champions League qualification hots up.
Leopards are currently third on the log with 33 points, two behind second-placed Tusker.
On the other hand, Mathare, who recently acquired the services of former Harambee Stars assistant coach Frank Ouna, are rooted at the bottom of the table with a paltry eight points.
 “Pressure is for the bears and wolves, so that’s not a problem. We still have one game remaining and if we win, we will be at the top. I know at the end of June there will be something special but after that, the league will finish in August,” said Aussems.
“You need to know that we played 10 against 15 today (Saturday). Eleven players from Posta, the pitch and the three referees. I don’t like talking about the referees, but everything was against us. We need to have a good recovery because on Thursday we will be back in action, but I hope not on this pitch again.”
Just like AFC, Gor Mahia will be seeking to narrow the gap on the league leaders KCB when they battle with Vihiga United in Mumias.
A win for the record champions will see them take their points tally to 28. and leapfrog Bandari into the fifth spot.
Coming from a community predominantly known for its athletics prowess, Fifa assistant referee Gilbert Cheruiyot wants to conquer greater heights in football.
Cheruiyot, who is a Fifa accredited referee, has worked his way up to become one of the most respected match officials in the continent.
Born and raised in Lembus Kiptoim, in Baringo County, Cheruiyot had a dream of playing professional football during his childhood but lack of support seemed to have dimmed his desire.
He chose football instead of athletics, going against the norm in his community, something that did not go down well with his parents who insisted he should focus on his education or try athletics.
“Coming from a community that likes athletics more than any other sport was one of the main challenges. My community considers playing football a waste of time. And I could receive a beating from my parents whenever they saw me play with my peers,” said Cheruiyot.
But despite being reprimanded by his parent, Cheruiyot never gave up on football.
After his secondary school education, in 2006, he decided to go for a refereeing course.
Since making up his mind of being a referee in 2008, Cheruiyot has never looked backed, rising from officiating local village football tournaments, Division Leagues, FKF Nationwide league to being a common face in the Football Kenya Federation Premier League matches.
“Since 2008, I have developed from the lowest ranks through to the Kenyan Premier league and Confederation of African Football (Caf) matches,” said Cheruiyot.
Seven years later, the 37-year-old official bust into continental limelight as he oversaw several matches in different parts of Africa and there’s no slowing down for the lanky official.
And as Kenyans eagerly await the Tokyo Olympics showdown scheduled to be held from July 23 to August 8 this year in Tokyo, Japan, to witness their athlete’s battle for medals, their eyes will also be trained on the football fields as Cheruiyot makes those vital calls along the touchline.
According to Cheruiyot, one of the challenges referees face mostly is language barrier.
Cheruiyot and Mary Njoroge are part of the 99 officials selected by Fifa from 51 countries to officiate at the Olympic Games.
They will be in charge during the men and women’s football matches at the world games.
Fifa appointed 25 centre referees, 50 assistant referees, 20 VAR officials and four support referees.
Cheruiyot, who officiated at the Caf Confederation Cup between Orlando Pirates of South Africa and Raja Casablanca of Morrocco in south Africa on Sunday, said he feels honoured to be among the match officials selected for the Summer Games.
“I don’t take this for granted; it is a big honour for me and the country. Out of the many referees, I am among the selected few,” he said.
Cheruiyot, who was named the most improved assistant referee by Kenya Premier League in 2018, credits his refereeing journey to hard work and resilience.
“The climax in refereeing is being at the World Cup; it is every referee’s dream to officiate at that top level. Olympics is second after World Cup,” he said.
Cheruiyot began his continental journey in 2015 when he officiated at the Caf Under-17 tournament in Niger before heading to Rwanda the following year for the 2016 Africa Nations Championships (CHAN).
In 2017, he was among the match officials who officiated the CAF Under-20 tournament in Zambia.
Cheruiyot said one of the challenges referees face mostly is language barrier.
“When officiating especially international matches you normally meet with players and officials speaking different languages, you speaking English, players speaking Arabic others speak French, but we normally say refereeing is a universal language, when you blow the whistle or raise the flag the players should just follow instructions”, he said.
Gor Mahia players protest after losing the CAF Confederations Cup match against Napsa Stars of Zambia in Lusaka on February 21, 2021.
Gor Mahia duo Kenneth Muguna and Boniface Oluoch have been slapped with Sh3.2 million fine by the Confederation of African Football (CAF).
The two stars were on Monday found guilty of violent conduct on a match official during a CAF Confederation Cup match on February 21, 2021, against Zambian side NAPSA Stars.
Gor Mahia players roughed up South African referee Lebalang Mokete who awarded Zambian side NAPSA Stars a penalty in the dying minutes of the game
NAPSA scored and knocked out K'Ogalo on a 3-2 aggregate scoreline.
After the final whistle, a section of Gor Mahia players confronted the referee, leading to a short but ugly scene.
 In a ruling by the CAF Disciplinary Committee, Oluoch and Muguna have each been handed Sh1.6 fine in addition to four-match bans.
K'Ogalo have also been ordered to foot the cost of repairs at the Heroes Stadium in Lusaka.
"Gor Mahia are instructed to immediately check the cost of the damages incurred by NAPSA Stars and reimburse the cost of damages caused by the players," reads the ruling by the CAF's Disciplinary Board.
This is not the first time K’Ogalo have found themselves on the wrong side of the CACF rules. 
In 2019, the record Kenyan champions were fined Sh750,000 failing to control their players in a CAF Confederation Cup home game against Motema Pembe of DRC Congo.
In 2019, CAF once again slapped K'Ogalo with a Sh1.5million fine for crowd trouble after a section of fans were caught on camera throwing objects in the field during a CAF Confederation Cup against Algerian side, NA Hussein Dey.
KCB capitalised on Tusker and AFC Leopards slip up to go on top of the FKF Premier League table after thrashing Bandari 3-0 at Utalii Grounds yesterday.
Having watched Tusker and AFC Leopards drop two points each following their draws with Wazito (1-1) and Posta Rangers (0-0) respectively, the bankers needed a win to dislodge the brewers from the summit.
And they did that in style with David Simiyu, Harun Thomas and substitute Derrick Otanga’s goals helping the bankers avenge last season’s double loss against the dockers and consequently return to the top of the table.
The emphatic victory saw Zedekiah ‘Zico’ Otieno’s boys take their points tally to 36, one ahead of Tusker and three more than third placed AFC as the race for CAF Champions League qualification hots up.
Though Otieno was pleased with his side’s performance, he played down their chances of securing their maiden Champions League ticket this season.
“Even though we are focused on our next game against Sofapaka, it is our hope and prayer that we maintain the position until June 30. We are just taking one game at a time,” said Otieno.
“I’m satisfied with the result and proud of my players’ performance today. We stepped up against Bandari after a slow start in the Mathare United game. Winning 3-0 against a team of Bandari calibre at this point of league means we are a good team. The players know what’s at stake and I feel that’s a sweet revenge after Bandari took six points from us last season.”
It took only 15 minutes for David Simiyu to break the deadlock when he capitalised on the dockers’ defensive error to easily tap home Reagan Otieno’s delivery from the left flank before Henry Onyango missed a golden chance in the 21st minute.
But five minutes later, Thomas Harun beat goalkeeper Justin Ndikumana from close range after the visitors’ defence failed to clear David Owino’s free kick.
Simiyu nearly bagged his second goal of the day when he pounced on a loose ball in the area only for the former Vihiga United man to feebly shoot straight at Bandari goalkeeper.
Sensing danger, Bandari coach Cassa Mbungo made a tactical change bringing on striker Umar Kasumba for centre half Brian Otieno on the half hour mark.
Kasumba nearly made an instant impact after he earned a free-kick for the dockers but William Wadri’s attempt was easily gathered by KCB goalkeeper Joseph Ochuka.
One of KCB defenders almost conceded an own goal while trying to clear Willian Wadri’s cut-back in the 40th minute before Kasumba missed a sitter following a goal mouth melee from Hassan Abdallah’s corner kick.
The bankers continued from where they left off in the first half with Curtis Wekesa almost extending the lead in the 58th minute after a brilliant run on the right flank.
Bandari responded after ten minutes, but Kasumba’s shot at the edge of the box was deflected for a fruitless corner before Wekesa missed another open scoring chance on the opposite end.
Derrick Otanga then came off the bench to put the game beyond the dockers reach when he perfectly connected Michael Oduor’s cross from the right flank in the 82nd minute.
Elsewhere, Frank Ouna picked up his first point as Mathare United coach after the Slum Boys held Nzoia Sugar to a 2-2 draw in Bungoma.
Gor Mahia striker, Caleb Otieno [left] and Congo Boys defender, Musa Binedu fight for control of the ball during the Football Kenya Federation Cup match played at Mbaraki Sports Club .
Ten-man Gor Mahia put aside their financial worries to thrash Congo Boys 3-0 and advance to the next round of the FKF Betway Cup.
Tito Okello, John Macharia and Clifton Miheso scored a goal each for the winners.
Okello scored in the 37th minute after he connected with a high ball pass from former Bandari defender and Ugandan import Fred Nkata to beat advancing Congo Boys custodian Edwin George.
However, the Premier League champions were reduced to 10 men after defender Sydney Wahongo was shown a straight red card for a dangerous play on Hussein Abdul in the 43rd minute.
 Macharia pounced on a rebound to add the second goal in the 50th minute for the Gor side coached by Vaz Pinto. Gor surged ahead with the third goal in the 66th minute by Miheso.
The winner of the tournament qualifies for the Caf Confederation Cup.
Gor Mahia could have missed the match due to financial constraints after they were stranded in Wundanyi, Taita Taveta County, where they had beaten Sofapaka 2-1 in an FKF Premier League match.
However, Lady Luck smiled on them after a Mombasa businessman Suleiman Shahbal came to the rescue of the record Kenyan champions.
The businessman bailed out K’Ogalo by paying for their travel to Mombasa for the rescheduled FKF Betway Cup Round 64 match.
Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier and Team Manager Jolawi Obondo thanked Shabhal for catering for the team’s transport, accommodation.
“Gor Mahia’s management called me seeking help on accommodation, and because I was aware of their match against Congo Boys, that was to give our coast boys the much-needed exposure, I thought it was only fair to help Gor Mahia honour this match as one way of supporting sports in this country,” Shahbal said.
Ulinzi Stars on Saturday ended Kariobangi Shark’s five match unbeaten run after defeating them 2-0 in a tight Football Kenya Federation Premier League match played in Narok.
Keeper James Saruni put up a man of the match performance as Ulinzi ended their four match winless run, a result that saw them move above the mid-table to eighth for the moment.
Masita Masuta and Clinton "Aguero" Omondi each netted in the opening half to inspire the soldiers to their fourth win of the campaign.
The victory gets Ulinzi to 21 points from 17 matches played, 14 points behind leaders Tusker.
The match started on a high note with both teams attempting for early goals but by the time the referee stopped the match in the 22nd minute for the first water break, no goal had been scored.
However, that would change at the half hour mark after Masuta netted past a helpless Brian Bwire in goal for Sharks.
Ten minutes later, Ulinzi would take a healthy two goal cushion to the breather after Omondi scored in the 39th minute to give Ulinzi a 2-0 lead.
In the final half, Sharks attempted to come back into the match but their numerous attempts were kept at bay by the excellent Saruni in goal for Ulinzi.
Shark’s disappointing day was summed up in the 89th minute when substitute Robert Onyango’s goal was ruled out with Ulinzi holding on to win 2-0.
Ulinzi will now prepare to face Western Stima next in Kisumu.
Lucy Mukhwana goals inspire Ulinzi Starlets in seven goal-thriller
The Football Kenya Federation Women Premier League resumed on Saturday on a high note after Lucy Mukhwana scored four first half goals to inspire Ulinzi Starlets to a dominant 6-1 win over Mathare United Women in a round 11 fixture played at the Camp Toyoyo grounds.
Mukhwana’s hat trick in the opening 16 minutes of match was enough to unsettle the Slum Queens who have now conceded 15 goals in the two legs after previously losing 9-1 in the first leg.
Mukhwana opened the scores with her first strike on goal in the 6th minute giving Ulinzi Starlets an early lead.
Seven minutes later, Mukhwana grabbed her brace after she outplayed Mathare United Women’s defense to bag the second goal for Ulinzi Starlets.
Mukhwana summed up her hat-trick in the 16th minute when she converted a free kick with a header that landed the ball to the back of the net.
Mukhwana went for a haul through her goal in the 22nd minute giving Ulinzi Starlets their fourth goal.
Siliya Rasoha first shot on target for Ulinzi Starlets in the 36th minute saw Ulinzi closing the first half with a comfortable 5-0 score line.
After the breather, Emily Egesa netted the sixth goal for Ulinzi Starlets with Emma Wainaina’s goal for Mathare United Women in the 87th minute summing up as a consolation goal with the full time whistle sealing the scores at 6-1.
Kisumu All Stars are confident of closing the gap on log leaders FC Talanta when they face Kibera Black Stars on Saturday (today) at Ligi Ndogo Grounds in Nairobi.
Speaking to The Standard Sports, All Stars captain Bobby Kwaka said their journey of returning back to the topflight league starts against Kibera.
“Nothing beats playing in the premier league. As a team, our objective is to achieve that goal and we start the ascending with a win against Kibera,” he said.
Despite not playing competitively since March 26 when sports was suspended again, Kwaka said they are more than ready for the league than before after working out some of their earlier problems.
“I think it has been to our advantage to some sort because we learnt new things during the break. The coach also never had enough time for pre-season so we utilised the two months,” Kwaka added.
Kisumu All Stars are seventh with 25 points, a point behind Kibera who are joint fifth with Fortune Sacco with 26 points.
Elsewhere, Migori Youth captain Clifford Otieno said they are seeking their second consecutive away win when they play Coast Stima today in Mombasa.
Stima are coming off a disappointing 2-0 defeat to relegation threatened Muranga Seals as Migori earned an impressive 2-0 victory over hosts Mwatate United during the rescheduled matches played in midweek.
“We are very confident and beefed up after a massive win in midweek and we expect to play even more against Stima. It won’t be easy but we have the momentum already,” said Otieno.
Three more matches are on the cards on Saturday as round 18 is expected to kick off with 10 teams playing for the first time since March.
Bottom placed Mt. Kenya United FC will host third placed Vihiga Bullets FC at Camp Toyoyo, Soy United host Gusii FC at Bukhungu Stadium as Silibwet entertain Modern Coast Rangers in Bomet Stadium.
FKF Premier League: Robert Matano left fuming after Tusker drop points against Wazito
Tusker squandered a chance to open a four-point gap at the top of the FKF Premier League table after sharing the spoils with Wazito in Friday’s 1-1 draw match at Utalii Grounds.
This was the second consecutive stalemate for the brewers after they were held to a barren draw by second placed KCB on the first weekend of the resumption of the league.
The result took Tusker’s points tally to 35, two ahead of the bankers, who tackle fifth-placed Bandari in Utalii on Saturday.
Just like KCB, title-chasing AFC Leopards (32) have an opportunity to dislodge Robert Matano’s men from the summit with a big win over Posta Rangers at Ruaraka Grounds on Saturday.
Sammy Meja gave Tusker an early lead in the fourth minute through a deflected free kick before Kevin Kimani capitalised on goalkeeper Emery Mvuyekure’s howler to score a 19th minute equaliser.
While Matano was left fuming with the result, his Wazito counterpart Francis Kimanzi heaped praised on his players.
“It’s like we lost the game. Those are two dropped points because we conceded a very easy goal. There was some fighting spirit, but I feel registering two draws in a row is not good for us,” said a visibly disappointed Matano.
“I also think the referee made unnecessary calls and water break in the second half affecting the momentum and the rhythm of the game. All the same, we are looking forward to improve in our next match.”
Tusker's Sammy Miseh (left) and Musa Masika of Wazito FC during an FKF Premier League match at Utalii Sports Club on Friday, May 21, 2021.
On the other hand, Kimanzi said: “I’m really proud of my players’ effort. Coming from a goal down to get a point from the league leaders means that we are learning very quickly. We could have won the game if we had maintained the same intensity we had in the first half.”
But Wazito were forced to make an early substitution in the seventh minute when central defender Benard Ochieng replaced the injured Maurice Ojwang.
Kimani then pounced on a rebound after the Rwandan goalkeeper failed to deal with Amos Asembeka’s feeble long range shot.
Wazito almost went ahead in the 34th minute, but Rogers Aloro reacted fast to intercept a cross for a fruitless corner.
Tusker responded immediately, but Christopher Ochieng’s glancing header from Luke Namanda’s delivery went over the bar before Boniface Muchiri forced a fine save from Wazito goalkeeper Levis Opiyo.
The brewers came close to regaining the lead on the stroke of halftime only for defender Kevin Monyi to scuff his effort in the area.
Namanda then saw his powerful shot kept out by Opiyo as both sides continued searching for the winning goal in vain.
Saturday’s matches will see Kakamega Homeboyz clash with Western Stima at Bukhungu Stadium as Ulinzi Stars and Kariobangi Sharks battle in Narok.
The result took Tusker’s points tally to 35, two ahead of KCB, who tackle fifth-placed Bandari in Utalii on Saturday. 
Nzoia Sugar coach Shikanda coach calls for response after Ingwe defeat
Nzoia Sugar coach Ibrahim Shikanda has called on his side to bounce back from their 1-0 defeat to AFC Leopards when they host Mathare United in Sunday’s FKF Premier League match at Sudi Stadium.
The millers were made to pay for their wastefulness after Caleb Olilo scored a screamer to inflict a sixth defeat of the season on the 14th placed Nzoia.
“Profligacy in front of goal cost us the game. I was disappointed with my players’ response in the game, they didn’t play as per instructions,” said Shikanda. “I feel the break also affected our performance.
FKF Premier League leaders Tusker feeling the pressure - Muchiri
Tusker midfielder Boniface Muchiri has admitted that they are feeling the pressure of being at the top of the FKF Premier League.
The brewers, who were held to a barren draw by title rivals KCB last weekend, take on Wazito in today’s fixture at Utalii Grounds.
“We didn’t get the desired results against KCB, but I feel we can do that in the coming few games,” said Muchiri.
“There is always the pressure of being at the top but it is making us work extra hard because if we drop more points our opponents will catch up with us.
The more we get the maximum points, the more relaxed we become.”
Tusker midfielder Boniface Muchiri dribbles the ball during their FKF Premier League match against KCB on May 15, 2021 at Ruaraka Grounds
Gor Mahia revived their chances of playing in the CAF Champions League next season thanks to a hard-fought 2-1 win over Sofapaka in today's FKF Premier League match in Taita Taveta.
The match seemed to be heading for a 1-1 draw only for Alpha Onyango to score a last gasp goal from Tito Okello’s cross.
The third consecutive victory temporarily took the pressure off the shoulders of Portuguese tactician Manuel Vaz Pinto as the sixth-placed K’Ogalo took their points tally 25, two behind fifth-placed Bandari. Batoto Ba Mungu remain ninth on the log with 19 points.
But despite the positive result at Wundanyi Stadium, Carlos Manuel Vaz Pinto knows he has his work cut out as Gor Mahia must at least win all their June fixtures and pray their opponents drop the points for them to earn the Champions League ticket.
On Monday, Football Kenya Federation (FKF) issued a directive saying that the team that will be on top of the standings by June 30 shall be declared the Kenyan representative at next season’s Champions League.
But it was Sofapaka who started the game on a high note when Timothy Otieno almost punished his former club only for his tenth-minute effort to be easily gathered by goalkeeper Gad Mathews.
South Sudan striker Tito Okello then broke the deadlock with a cool header past a hapless Togolese goalkeeper Abuol Moubarak Togolese in the 28th minute..
Fullback Titus Achesa drew level in the 56th minute before Okello combined well with youthful Alpha Onyango for the winner in the 82nd minute.
Gor Mahia FC's Alpha Onyango (left) and Michael Odongo of Vihiga FC during FKF PL match at Kasarani Stadium on Saturday, Jan 23, 2020
Migori Youth captain Clifford Otieno is upbeat the club can finish among the top four clubs in the National Super League after resuming the second-tier league with a victory in one of the three rescheduled matches played on Wednesday.
The South Nyanza based club defeated Mwatate United 2-0 to move out of the relegation zone up to 12th in the standings with 21 points from 17 matches played.
Former Gor Mahia striker Dickson “Agwambo” Raila debuted with a goal in addition to Michael Bosco strike that sealed all three points for Migori.
“We are very happy to come back home with all maximum points especially after another stressful two months out without football,” said Otieno during an interview with The Standard Sports.
“This win will come in handy ahead of our next matches which we have to win in order to be able to achieve our goal of finishing in the top four,” Otieno added.
Meanwhile, Vihiga Bullets closed the gap on joint leaders Kenya Police and FC Talanta to two points after narrowly edging out Fortune Sacco 1-0 in Kianyaga Stadium.
The victory saw Vihiga move to third in the standings with 30 points, two behind Kenya Police and FC Talanta who are tied on 32 points.
In Mombasa, Wilson Kamau scored a brace to inspire Muranga Seals to an important 2-0 victory over Coast Stima at Mbaraki Grounds.
The win lifted Seals out of the relegation zone to 14th with 19 points.
After round 17 of super league matches played, former Premier League side Mount Kenya United remain bottom of the table with 13 points followed by Soy United and Gusii FC AS Talanta, Kenya Police and Vihiga Bullets lead race for promotion.
Five more matches are on the cards on Saturday as round 18 is expected to kick off with 10 teams playing for the first time since March.
Migori Youth FC's Captain Clifford Otieno during NSL match against Mt Kenya FC at Camp Toyoyo on Wednesday, Oct 17, 2019.
Accountant, matatu driver win in BangBet draws
Evanson Kiprotich, winner of BangBet Casino Lucky Draws receives cheque from BangBet Marketing Manager Kelvin Maundu on Friday May 21, 2021.
Evanson Kiprotich and his family are set to be cushioned from the effects of the coronavirus pandemic after he clinched Sh500,000 courtesy of BangBet’s monthly Casino Lucky Draw.
The Muthiga resident, an accountant by profession, is one of those who suffered reduced earnings after his employer imposed a pay cut following the disruption the pandemic caused on businesses, but last Thursday, that pain was alleviated, thanks to BangBet.
The Baringo native staked just Sh500 on his favourite Lucky football game and walked away with 1,000 times the amount following the monthly draw.
Kiprotich has, however, had to endure numerous losses for the last year, having signed up to the BangBet Lucky Casino in May 2020, but he credits patience for the victory.
“I always knew that there is a season for winning and a season for defeat. That is why I did not give up,” said Kiprotich, who was accompanied by his wife, when he picked his cheque from BangBet Marketing Manager Kelvin Maundu on Friday. 
His wife, who lost her job due to the pandemic, will now see her frustration turned into joy after Kiprotich revealed that he will use the money to start a business for her.
Meanwhile, William Nyaga, a matatu driver, who lives in Githurai 45 walked away with Sh100,000 from last week’s Weekly Casino Draw.
“I will use the money to buy a bull and take it to my home county of Murang’a,” said the father of three, who staked Sh100 on his favourite game, Lucky Poker.
Sofapaka are upbeat about toppling Gor Mahia when they entertain the defending champions in a Football Kenya Federation Premier League match on Wednesday at Wundanyi Stadium in Taita Taveta.
Sofapaka sit ninth on the standings on 19 points from 15 matches knowing that victory will see them move level on points with sixth-placed K’Ogalo, a fete Sofapaka head coach Ken Odhiambo is keen to achieve.
Speaking to The Standard Sports, Odhiambo said he trusts his players to maintain their winning form when they face Gor Mahia.
Riding high on the back of a commanding 2-0 victory over Wazito 2-0, Odhiambo believes players will be motivated when they face the champions.
“The match against Gor will be very tricky considering the talent they have in the team. Despite that, we are ready for them. My boys are psyched up and raring to go and we can’t wait to hit the field,” Odhiambo said.
Regarding Caf Champions League, Odhiambo said their focus is on their match against Gor Mahia and their matches to follow.
“Today we focus on Gor. Tomorrow we look at who is next in line. Our main objective as a tea is to win games, each at a time and then we will see how it goes when June 30 reaches,” Odhiambo added.
Gor are sixth in the standings with 22 points, 12 points behind leaders Tusker, a gap Gor assistant coach Sammy Omollo believes they can close.
“I believe everything is achievable in football and to be top of the standings by the end of June is very much possible for us. Gor is a team with wealth in quality players and we are banking on them to lift the team up in the coming run of matches,” said the former KCB coach.
“Sofapaka is a good team and we will have to be cautious too. I believe we had a good win against City Stars that will give players a boost today and we expect nothing but all three points,” Omollo added.
Record Kenyan Premier League champions Gor Mahia are confident of closing the gap on top-four teams when they face Sofapaka today’s FKF Premier League match in Wundanyi.
Speaking to Standard Sports, Gor Mahia assistant coach Sammy Omollo said they must beat Sofapaka to keep their chances of topping the table by June 30 and play in the Caf Champions League.
Earlier this week, FKF said the team that will be on top of the Premier League standings by June 30, will represent Kenya in the 2021-22 CAF Champions League.
“I believe everything is achievable in football and to be top of the standings by the end of June is possible. Gor is a team that has a lot of talented players and we are banking on them to lift the team up in the coming matches,” said Omollo.
“Sofapaka is a good team and we will have to be cautious too. I believe we had a good win against City Stars, which is a boost ahead of our match. We expect nothing but all three points.”
Player rotation will be key during this busy schedule for most teams.
Meanwhile, former Harambee Stars assistant coach Frank Ouna started his reign at Mathare United on a losing note after the Slum Boys fell 2-1 to KCB at Ruaraka Grounds yesterday.
The victory saw the bankers take their points tally to 33 and leapfrog AFC Leopards into the second as Mathare remain rooted at the bottom with seven points.
Daniel Otieno gave Mathare an early lead in the first minute only for Vincent Wasambo to cancel it on the stroke of halftime.
Derrick Otanga then scored the winner midway through the second half to help the bankers narrow the gap on league leaders Tusker one point.
Migori Youth captain Clifford ‘Ouma’ Otieno is optimistic they can turn around their poor form and get back to winning ways when they face Mwatate United FC on Wednesday (today) as the National Super League resumes under strict COVID-19 protocols.
Three midweek super league fixtures are on the cards after an eight-week break in March when President Uhuru Kenyatta suspended sporting activities in the country to curb the rising cases of COVID-19.
Speaking to The Standard Sports, Otieno believes they have what it takes to compete at the top level again, noting that the brief two months break will play a pivotal role in their rise once again.
“We are Migori Youth. The team is ready for the league battle once again we are going to do everything it takes to collect maximum points in Taita.”
“We have been training well during the brief break where we tried to work out some of the few problems we faced during the opening 16 matches we played and I believe we are in a better positon than before,” Otieno said.
After 16 matches in the second tier league, Migori are 17th with 18 points. 
Migori beefed up their squad with the acquisition of former Gor Mahia striker Dickson “Agwambo” Raila who is expected to make his debut today.
Mwatate are eighth with 25 points and a win will see them move to within four points of leaders FC Talanta.
In Mombasa, 11th placed Coast Stima welcome relegation threatened Muranga Seals at Mbaraki Grounds as Vihiga Bullets seek to close the gap on leaders Talanta to two points when they travel to play Fortune Sacco who are a point behind them in the log.
Kisumu Hot Stars striker Charles Adika (right) in action against Migori Youth.
Ex-Harambee Stars assistant coach Ouna left to pick up the pieces at Mathare
Former Harambee Stars assistant coach Frank Ouna was yesterday appointed Mathare United’s new head coach after Salim Ali was sacked alongside his assistant Patrick Gitagia.
The club’s management opted to make the changes in a bid to save the team from relegation.
Ali, who took over from current Wazito coach Francis Kimanzi in 2018, has endured a difficult campaign this year.
The Slum Boys are at a risk of being relegated at the end of the 2021 Football Kenya Federation Premier League season after failing to win their 14th match of the campaign as the local football league resumed over the weekend under strict Covid-19 protocols after seven weeks out.
In his last match, Mathare played out to a 0-0 draw with Vihiga United, a result that left them bottom of the premier league standings with seven points.
Mathare United CEO Jectone Obure said they had to take the drastic change for the sake of the team's future.
"We had to make some changes. The team has not been performing well this season and we made a tough decision to let Salim, our former player who has grown through the ranks, to go because of the poor results,” Obure said.
Salim will now be replaced by Ouna, whose major responsibility is to ensure the team survives the axe.
“Ouna takes over with immediate effect. He is a great coach whom we believe will help the team get out of the relegation zone and stay in the top league next season,” added the CEO.
Former Harambee Stars coach Bobby Williamson will also be part of the new-look bench as a technical advisor. 
“I want to thank the leadership of Mathare United for giving me this opportunity to work at this great club," said Ouna.
“My goal is to do everything within my powers and help keep Mathare in the top league. With all the knowledge and experience I have gained in my 12-year coaching career, I believe we can get positive results."
Despite enjoying a two-game in hand advantage, the former Gor Mahia assistant coach has a huge task ahead with safety only assured if they leapfrog either Western Stima or Vihiga United, who are five points ahead of them having played two games more in the 17-team league.
To start off their push for survival, Ouna will face fourth-placed KCB who are pushing to compete for the title today before tackling in-form AFC Leopards at the weekend.
“I cannot predict what I can or cannot do ahead of KCB match. We have had only one session and therefore the challenge to my players is to show me how much they can fight. We start as underdogs, but size counts for nothing,” said Ouna.
Prior to his sacking, the former Ulinzi Stars tactician had led the team in 14 matches where he managed one win, four draws, and nine losses. 
Out of the 14 matches played, the Slum Boys have only registered one win against Nzoia Sugar in a 1-0 win they bagged in February 8.
They would have had two wins but their 2-0 victory over Zoo FC in January was scrapped following Fifa’s May 4 decision to relegate Zoo FC to Division One after finding them culpable of match fixing.
This leaves Mathare with seven points from their one win and four draws after losing nine matches to Sofapaka, Gor Mahia, Ulinzi Stars, Tusker, Bidco United, Nairobi City Stars, Kakamega Homeboyz, Posta Rangers and Kariobangi Sharks.
Mathare was founded in 1994 to help youth and their families escape poverty in the Mathare slums.
They won the 1998 Presidents Cup, the same year they were promoted to the then Kenya Premier League.
They won their first and only league title during the 2008 season.
The 2008 champions’ story in the top league might just be over this year but it remains to be seen if this will be the case at the end of the campaign especially with the change of guard. 
Mathare United sack head coach Salim Ali
Mathare United have parted ways with head coach Salim Ali.
Former Wazito head coach Frank Ouno is set to take over.
Mathare United is at risk of being relegated at the end of the 2021 FKF Premier League season after failing to win their 14th match of the campaign as the local football league resumed over the weekend under strict Covid-19 protocols.
The league was suspended on March 26 after President Uhuru Kenyatta banned all sporting activities in the country, owing to the increased Covid-19 infections.
Mathare played out to a 0-0 draw with Vihiga United, a result that left them bottom of the league standings with seven points.
Out of the 14 matches played, the Slum Boys have only registered one win against Nzoia Sugar back in February.
They would have had two wins but their 2-0 victory over Zoo FC in January was scrapped following FIFA’s May 4 decision to relegate Zoo FC to Division One after finding them culpable of match-fixing.
This leaves Mathare with seven points from their one win and four draws after losing matches to Sofapaka, Gor Mahia, Ulinzi Stars, Tusker, Bidco United, Nairobi City Stars, Kakamega Homeboyz, Posta Rangers and Kariobangi Sharks.
Chelsea win second Champions League title, deny Pep Guardiola's Manchester City their firs
Chelsea won their second Champions League title and denied Pep Guardiola's Manchester City their first after Kai Havertz grabbed a first-half goal to secure a 1-0 win in Saturday's all-English final at the Estadio Do Dragao.
The German youngster, Chelsea's record signing, kept his composure as he raced through and evaded goalkeeper Ederson before rolling the ball into an empty net in the 42nd minute to decide a tight encounter played in front of a 16,500 crowd.
Premier League champions City were favourites ahead of the final but suffered a desperately disappointing night in their first Champions League showpiece match.
Despite winning three of the last four Premier League titles for City, Spaniard Guardiola failed to deliver the coveted European trophy he last won with Barcelona in 2011.
For Chelsea's German manager Thomas Tuchel the triumph comes after his Paris St Germain side suffered defeat in last season's final against Bayern Munich and just four months after he took over from Frank Lampard at the west London club.
"To share it with everybody is incredible. We made it. Wow. I don't know what to feel," said Tuchel. "I was so grateful to arrive a second time (in the final). I felt different.
"The (players) were determined to win this. We wanted to be a stone in their (City's) shoe. We encouraged everybody to step up and step out, to be more brave," he sai
While Tuchel got his approach spot on, Guardiola’s team selection was surprising with Raheem Sterling brought in on the left, neither regular holding midfielder, Fernandinho or Rodri, picked and Ilkay Gundogan left to protect the back line.
It quickly became apparent the move had left City’s defence exposed with Chelsea creating early chances, three of which fell to German Timo Werner who failed to capitalise - miskicking one, shooting softly at Ederson and then finding the side-netting.
Gundogan’s already difficult task got harder when he was booked for a foul on Mason Mount in the 34th minute.
Chelsea also suffered a setback when their experienced Brazilian centre-back Thiago Silva went down awkwardly after a header and had to limp off six minutes before the break, being replaced by Andreas Christensen.
However, three minutes later Chelsea struck. Midfielder Mount split the City defence with a superb through ball and Ederson rushed out of his goal but was unable to stop Havertz from skipping past him and slotting into the unguarded net.
City’s night got worse when key midfielder Kevin De Bruyne had to go off with a concussion injury after an accidental clash with Antonio Rudiger left him on the ground, with Guardiola throwing on Brazilian striker Gabriel Jesus in his place.
Christian Pulisic came on for Chelsea to become the first American to play in a Champions League final and almost the first to score when he was slipped in by Havertz but then drifted his shot just wide of the post.
City gradually began to get the upper hand but their usual composure was lacking and it was not until deep into stoppage time that they went close with a hopeful effort from Riyad Mahrez that clipped the bar.
The final whistle set off wild celebrations for the Chelsea fans who had flown in for the game, while dejected City supporters headed off for the flights back to Manchester. 
"Decisions are always to try to win the game," said Guardiola, when asked to reflect on his team selection. 
"I would like to say it was an exceptional season for us. Unfortunately we couldn’t win. We tried, but we couldn’t do it and will work harder from here," added the Spaniard, whose side won the League Cup to go with their Premier League crown.
The way we played the game in the second half, they had one counter attack with Pulisic. 
They’re a really good team, but we competed perfectly against them.
Tuchel has faced City three times in six weeks and won every time. Chelsea's Russian owner Roman Abramovich, watching from the stands, must have had a wry smile to himself as once again his ruthless approach to managerial changes has paid off. 
 In the second half we deserved to score one goal but we couldn’t do it.
Football Kenya Federation (FKF) has announced the team that will be leading on the FKF Premier League standings by June 30 will represent Kenya in the 2021/22 CAF Champions League.
This is after a statement dated May 17, 2021, signed by FKF CEO, Barry Otieno required a name (representative) be submitted to CAF by Wednesday, June 30, 2021, which is the deadline for member associations to submit teams to its Interclub Competitions.
"The federation is in receipt of communication from CAF directing that FKF submits Kenya's representative for the CAF inter-club competitions, latest June 30, 2021," read part of the statement.
FKF says the decision to award the CAF Champions League spot to the team leading the league at the said date has been occasioned by the fact the league calendar (fixtures) will not have concluded.
"Consequently, and in consideration that the FKF Premier League calendar may not be concluded before the aforementioned date, due to the disruption occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic, the FKF Leagues and Competitions Committee in a meeting held on May 7 2021, resolved that FKF PL representative shall be the team at the top of the table, as at June 30, 2021," read the rest of the statement.
This means perennial Kenya champions Gor Mahia risk missing out on a place in next season’s CAF Champions League.
Tusker FC lead with 37 points after 17 matches, followed closely by AFC Leopards, with 32 points having played two games less.
Kariobangi Sharks are third tied on points with fourth-placed KCB (31) having both played 16 matches, with Bandari two points behind in fifth.
K'Ogalo, the defending champions are sixth, 12 points off first place, however, having played three games less than Tusker.
The unavailability of Kasarani and Nyayo Stadiums is giving FKF Premier League bosses sleepless nights.
Initially, Football Kenya Federation (FKF) had earmarked the two largest sporting facilities in the country as venues for the league which resumed on Friday (May 14) after almost a seven-week break.
But according to Sports Kenya Director General Pius Metto, Kasarani (Main and Annex) will be inaccessible for at least four months as it is being used as a bubble camp for Team Kenya preparing for the Tokyo Olympic Games.
Apart from acting as a bubble camp for the Olympic team whose first batch departs for Japan on July 5, Kasarani is scheduled to host the IAAF World U20 Championships on August 17-22.
He further said that they are still in discussions with the Ministry of Sports on the availability of Nyayo Stadium.
“Kasarani is locked for Olympics preparations. It is a bubble camp for Team Kenya and we are not allowing any other activities in the facility. In essence, the facility is inaccessible until after the World U20 Championships in August. That means, the FKF Premier League organisers will have to look for somewhere else to host their matches,” Metto told Standard Sports.
Asked about Nyayo’s availability, the official simply said: “I don’t want to comment about Nyayo Stadium because the facility was not supposed to host local games."
 But all the same we are still having a discussion with the Ministry and we will update them.
I have actually guided the federation and therefore they are seeking clearance and how to use the facility. 
And that’s why I don’t want to comment further on the matter.
The league and other sporting activities in the country were suspended for the second time by the government on March 26 due to the surge in Covid-19 infections. The directive came just when the league was taking shape with each team having played at least 14 matches .
And with the unavailability of the two largest sporting facilities in the country, the federation has been forced to relook for other alternative venues (Narok, World Hope, Utalii and Ruaraka Grounds) for Nairobi-based teams in this congested window that is set to conclude on July 14 two weeks after the deadline of submitting the league winners’ name to CAF (Champions League).
Friday saw Kariobangi Sharks beat Kakamega Homeboyz 1-0 at Utalii in their first restart match before Ruaraka, which had been banned from hosting league matches staged a double header the following day (AFC Leopards 1-0 Nzoia Sugar and Tusker 0-0).
Gor Mahia also overcame Nairobi City Stars 1-0 at Utalii yesterday while Mathare United drew 0-0 with Vihiga United at Ruaraka.
Machakos Stadium which used to host matches involving most of the Nairobi-based clubs has not staged a league game since it was converted to a Covid-19 Centre last year.
While FKF president Nick Mwendwa says they have no option but to continue playing, he feels the poor state of the venues that has been worsened by the rains will affect the quality of the game.
“Football is under pressure after we were denied hosting the matches at Kasarani and Nyayo. We have been told none of the stadiums is available for us so we will have to make do with the venues we have,” said Mwendwa.
“The other pitches will have a great impact on our game in terms of TV production and players’ output. It will be expensive to take the matches outside Nairobi.”
Defending champions Gor Mahia resumed the Football Kenya Federation Premier League with a win after narrowly defeating 10-man Nairobi City Stars 1-0 at Utalii Grounds on Sunday.
Burkina Faso import Karim Abdul scored the only goal of the match in the opening half as the champions held on to bag their seventh win of the season.
Victory propelled K'Ogalo to sixth in the league standings with 22 points, 12 points adrift leaders Tusker while City Stars remained 11th with 17 points.
Abdul’s goal came in the 30th minute after Clifton Miheso's cross presented him with a tap in off the post with City Stars stopper Steve Njunge nowhere to be seen.
Despite City Stars striker Eric Ombija sending off in the 74th minute, Gor Mahia could not do any more damage in the remaining 16 minutes of the match with City Stars defense repelling all attacks.
In Wundanyi, 2009 champions Sofapaka defeated Wazito 2-0 to move up to the bottom half table from their previous 13th place.
Nicholas Omondi and former Gor Mahia midfielder Lawrence Juma’s goals in the final half were enough to hand Kennedy Odhiambo his fifth win of the campaign.
The win saw Batoto ba Mungu moved to ninth on the log with 19 points, while Wazito dropped to seventh with 22 points.
At Ruaraka, bottom placed Mathare United were held to a barren draw with Vihiga United.
Last year’s Kenya Cup runners up Kabras Sugar will welcome Kenyatta University’s Blak Blad at the Kakamega Showground with an eye set on extending their lead in the standings. Kabras lead the log with 15 points.
Menengai Oilers will play Strathmore Leos in Nakuru in the final match of the day with Nondies, Nakuru, Kenya Harlequin and Impala given a rest.
Meanwhile, KRU has opened a temporary loan transfer window ahead of the Kenya Cup reyurn. The transfer window opened on May 26 and runs until June 4.
“As we resume play for the suspended Kenya Cup League, the league and fixtures committee have declared a temporary transfer window period.”
“This period shall run from May 26, 2021, to June 4, 2021. Players or clubs seeking a temporary (loan) transfer to/from other clubs may utilise this window to effect the said transfers.”
“The regulations affecting loan players (regulation 14.8 and others) will be in effect and clubs are asked to adhere to the same,” read a letter by Kenya Rugby Union’s acting C.E.O Thomas Odundo.
Kenyan legend Benjamin Ayimba was set to start an age grading rugby academy in Nyanza
As Kenyans are coming to terms with the sudden death of the former Kenya Sevens and rugby legend and coach Benjamin Ayimba, it has been revealed he had a great intention to build an age grading rugby academy in the Nyanza region.    
While revealing his (Ayimba) plans for Nyanza region in rugby development, Kenya Lionesses head coach Felix Oloo said the fallen hero had started engaging him to commence the inauguration of the academy that could tap talents at the grassroots from the home of rugby in Western Kenya.
Oloo said Ayimba had the intention of having an academy in Western Kenya similar to the ones at Nakuru Athletic Club and Impala Club in Nairobi.
“That was his aspiration and ambition soon after he retired from the national duties and we were to partner together in the whole process of having the matter come to fruition,” Oloo told The Standard Sports while mourning the fallen legend.  
“He was a real coach who faced issues head-on and had his own ways of solving matters within players that resulted in the playing unit playing for him,” Oloo who is a former Kenyan international said.
As he leads Kenya Lionesses to the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, Oloo said he would like to emulate the fallen legend in his footsteps that led Kenya to win the first ever global sevens title in Singapore Sevens in 2016.
“He was my mentor and with my appointment at the national level, it is my desire to follow his footsteps to ensure the women’s team bags a global title under my armpit,” he stated.
Menengai Oilers head coach Gibson Weru said Ayimba elevated the sevens rugby from obscurity to the global level.
He said he had the privilege to play alongside Ayimba at the national team at the global level before he later became his tactician years later.   
Impala RFC head coach Mitch Ocholla termed the late Ayimba as a comrade whose inspirational spirits led the team to win the Singapore Sevens title.
Former rugby Sevens coach Benjamin Ayimba’s funeral will cost Sh2.7 million.
The money will help foot the Sh1.7 million pending hospital bill and Sh1 million will go towards funeral expenses.
His uncle Joseph Ayimba, and the family spokesperson, Oscar Osir, said he will be buried in two weeks.
The family has asked for well-wishers to help ease the financial burden.
Ayimba (44) was battling cerebral malaria, which kept him away from the public eye since the start of 2021.
On May 9, Ayimba’s family gave an update on his health status, urging Kenyans to keep on contributing money to offset the medical bill of the ailing rugby legend.
Ayimba was admitted to the Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH) Private Wing.
After leaving his brief role as Kenya 15's coach, Ayimba coached the Sevens team between 2006 and 2011, where they secured their first-ever World Series final in 2009 in Adelaide, Australia. In the same year, he led Shujaa to its maiden Rugby World Cup Sevens semi-final in Dubai.
His second stint as Kenya Sevens head coach was between 2015-16, where he coached the team to its first-ever appearance at the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
In 2016, Ayimba and the team made history when they won the World Series title after Kenya beat Fiji 30-7 in the 2016 Singapore Sevens final.
Locally, he had coaching stints at Kenya Harlequins (Assistant coach), Mean Machine and Homeboyz.
Ayimba will go down in history books as the man who won the 2016 Singapore Sevens after thrashing Fiji 30-7 to bring the coveted cup home.
 It is no mean feat.
But did you know that Ayimba’s rugby journey reads like that of the biblical Israelites when they left Egypt? Maybe not, as many Kenyans — save for his recent win in Singapore — remember him as a man who was fired as the Sevens coach in 2011.
The former old boy of Olympic Primary School in Nairobi, according to one of his teachers, tried his hand (and legs) in anything sports.
After completing his studies at Olympic, Ayimba joined Maseno School in Nyanza, where he met a teacher, one Jeam Agutu, the then Deputy Principal at Maseno School.
Ayimba had a polished demeanour and was easy to read.
He had the will and mettle to succeed against odds, traits he had built since his childhood days and later teenage years.
He received the all-important shot in the arm when Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) Chairman Richard Omwela reinstated him as coach to do what he loves and knows best. He did not disappoint as was evident in the Hong Kong and triumphant Singapore tours.
During his days as a player, he had a winning mentality, especially after reaching similar finals in the late 1990s.
The Kenyan rugby fraternity and the entire sporting world was in shock yesterday after Shujaa legend Benjamin Ayimba died of cerebral malaria on Friday night. He was 44.
The news of Ayimba’s death, who was a national hero after establishing himself as one of the greatest rugby coaches in the country, brought an outpouring of mourning and remembrance on social media, headlining almost all the discussions.
“Benjamin succumbed to the multiple complications he was being treated for over the past couple of months,” read a statement from family’s spokesman Oscar Osir.
“The family and close friends would like to extend their deepest gratitude for the prayers and the overwhelming moral and financial support that you all have offered during Benjamin’s last days.”
The former Kenya Sevens and fifteens captain’s legend grew into international reverence in 2016 when he masterminded Kenya’s Main Cup triumph at Singapore Sevens. Shujaa pulled off a shocking 30-7 victory over Fiji to clinch their first ever World Sevens Series title on Ayimba’s second stint as the national team coach.
And from President Uhuru Kenyatta to opposition leader Raila Odinga, Kenya Rugby Union chairman Oduor Gangla, Shujaa coach Innocent ‘Namcos’ Simiyu, captain Andrew Amonde and his former teacher cum rugby coach at Maseno School Milton Nyangaga, all described Ayimba as a true servant of the game.
While paying tribute to his predecessor and former coach, who introduced him to international level, Simiyu urged the government to give Ayimba a state funeral.
“I’m saddened by the loss of Benja. He was a true rugby man who dedicated his life to the game. He was a national team player, a captain and a coach. It is a big loss not only to the rugby fraternity but the entire country,” Simiyu, who replaced Ayimba as Kenya 7s coach in 2016 told The Standard Sports.
“It is at this time that the government should come in and even give him a proper sendoff. He actually deserves a state funeral or a sendoff that best befits him like someone who dedicated his whole life for Kenya. He has been a true servant of the game.
President Uhuru Kenyatta excited after making a line out with the Kenyan 7s team at State House, shaking hands with the head coach Benjamin Ayimba in 2016.
He continued: “I remember when I left High School and made it to the national team, Benja was the captain. He walked us through and introduced us to the international level."
He was a very inspirational captain and even when he became the coach, I was his first captain.
We had a very good year in getting to the finals for the first time ever in Adelaide.
He really mentored us to challenge the norm and renew our thinking and change our mindsets.
There was that notion that we are the underdogs and that’s what he changed; we can compete with the big boys.
KRU chairman Oduor Gangla simply said: “A true servant of the game, Benjamin was an inspiration to many, on and off the pitch.”
But Ayimba also made friends and foes in equal measure with his perceived no nonsense approach and unflattering statements during his two coaching stints at Shujaa.
Though Ayimba was portrayed as a coach who attracted both admiration and resentment in his line of duty winning himself love and loathe at the same time, Amonde considers him as a revolutionary.
He clashed with KRU bosses in some occasions that mostly led to his sacking both in 2011 and 2016. In 2011, Ayimba was fired after opposing the fielding of the team’s main players in the Safari Sevens tournament before he faced the same wrath in 2016 following the Rio Olympic Games fiasco.
“Ayimba was a special person. He came through the Kenyan rugby system and he has been able to give us a road map that we will have to follow in the future. Ayimba did his part and showed us the way, and now it is up to us to make him proud in heaven. We are all mourning for having a legend gone too soon,” said Amonde.
“I feel Benja was more than a servant of the game. He gave it all. I think he is one mentor that has brought a different bit into the game. Rugby will forever remain indebted to Benja and his family because he brought us at a place where no one ever did and achieved a lot.”
Before the Singapore triumph, Ayimba had masterminded Kenya’s first ever World Series final in 2009 in Adelaide followed by a maiden semifinal appearance at the 2009 Rugby World Cup Sevens in Dubai.
But it is at the historic Singapore Sevens that Ayimba left an imprint in the game after literally killing three birds by one stone during his second short spell.
First, he guided the team into booking its Olympics ticket in Rio before leaving a legacy of having introduced several youngsters on the World Rugby Sevens scene.
And it was after Ayimba’s reappointment following the departure of Felix Ochieng in 2015 that immediately turned around the team’s fortunes after a difficult 2014/2015 season, where they had flirted with relegation for the better part of the campaign.
But his return in the dugout ended on a relatively low note after disappointing outing in 2016 Rio Olympics Games, where Kenya finished eleventh on overall before guiding the team to reclaim the Safari Sevens.
The multi-talented Ayimba, who tried his hands and legs in nearly all sports while at Olympic Primary School, Nairobi, began his rugby career at Maseno School.  
And for Nyangaga, a man who honed Ayimba’s rugby skills at Maseno between 1991 and 1994, his student outdid him in coaching.
“I’m the one who introduced Benjamin to rugby. He was not a good player, but as a coach he did much better than me. It is unfortunate to hear of his demise. We have lost a great man,” said Nyangaga.
However, Ayimba is credited for laying the foundation of Kenyan rugby after scouting and nurturing many players before eventually introducing some of them to the global scene.
Samuel Oliech, Donald Aluoch, Robert Aringo, Nelson Oyoo, Jeffrey Oluoch, Alvin Otieno, Samuel Motari, Alex Olaba and Frank Wanyama were all handed their World Series debuts by Ayimba in the 2015/2016 season.
By doing so, Ayimba was preparing for a smooth transition in Shujaa when the time comes for the likes of Humphrey Khayange, Collins Injera, Dennis Ombachi and Andrew Amonde to exit the field.
While Ayimba was critically ill and fighting for his life in a city hospital, the family was struggling to raise funds to offset an estimated medical bill of Sh 1.7 million.
He had not been seen in public since the beginning of the year.
Ayimba played for Impala as a rookie (backrow) in 1995 after completing his school studies and went on to captain the Red Shirts to two Kenya Cups, Enterprise Cups and Floodlit tournaments in 2000 and 2001.
 He also inspired the team to three National Sevens Circuit titles between 1999 and 2001.
He then moved to record Kenyan champions Nondescripts in 2002 before joining English side Cornish Pirates the following year.
Before venturing into coaching, Ayimba had featured for Shujaa at the 1998,2002 and 2006 Commonwealth Games as well as the 2001 and 2005 Rugby World Cup Sevens tournaments in Argentina and Hong Kong respectively.
He then had a short coach/player role for the Simbas before serving as Shujaa coach between 2006 and 2011 after succeeding his Impala coach Bill Githinji.
His achievements didn’t go unnoticed as he was awarded the Order of the Grand Warrior (OGW) by former President Mwai Kibaki.
Ayimba is also credited for being part of the team that introduced popular tournaments like Masaku7s, Meru 7s and Kitui 7s in the country.
Inside Paul Odera’s plan to take Kenya Simbas to first Rugby World Cup
Kenya Simbas head coach Paul Odera remains optimistic that Kenya can qualify for their first Rugby World Cup to be held in France in 2022.
Despite Covid-19 restrictions restricting the currently 102 players that were called up to the national 15s rugby squad to virtual trainings, Odera believes nothing can stop them if they implement a core set of values he created ahead of their qualifying journey.
Odera believes protection, respect, honesty, perseverance, leadership and warrior-ship can assist the Simbas in their quest to reach France 2023.
“Making the World Cup in France is something much bigger than just rugby for us,” Odera told World Rugby.
“To us, it's to bring the country together, to bring all the different races, tribes, ethnic groups and disparate social groups together for the country to start believing in the men.”
“What's driving me is my passion and that passion is what I'm trying to get into the players, into my coaching staff, into the Kenya Rugby Union as an organisation.”
“We are transforming this country through the game of rugby and we're going to get success on the field and we're going to get success off the field,” he said.
The Simbas are scheduled to host Senegal and Zambia in Nairobi in July in Pool B of the second round of African qualification for RWC 2023.
Kenya have won both of their previous test meetings with Senegal, while their only defeat to Zambia came 41 years ago.
However, the Simbas have not played a competitive test since their Victoria Cup win over Zimbabwe in September 2019, while the country’s domestic competition was suspended in March due to the pandemic.
And, although two of the three teams will progress to the next round, Odera is still worried that a lack of match practice and conditioning could hurt his side.
Kenya came closer than they ever have done to realising their Rugby World Cup dream three years ago when the team qualified for the tournament in Marseille as Africa 2.
However, it turned into a sobering experience as the Simbas lost each of their three matches in the south of France to Canada, Hong Kong and Germany.
Odera and Kenya know how hard it is to navigate the repechage, and the coach is, therefore, keen to secure the team’s return to France as Africa 1, an ambition he thinks is achievable.
Taking heart from the win his Kenya U20 team recorded over Namibia to qualify for the World Rugby U20 Trophy 2019, Odera believes the Simbas can do similar if they improve their success rate in key areas of the game, including the lineout, kicking and tackling.
“We want to transform our country, leadership and our identity; inspiring pride and love for the people of Kenya through rugby,” he said.
Innocent Simiyu: We are ready for Olympics scrum down
Kenya Sevens head coach Innocent Simiyu is confident Shujaa will be ready for the Tokyo Olympics when the global games begin on July 23.
Speaking after guiding the national rugby Sevens team to a second-place finish at the two-week Rugby Africa Solidarity Camp mini-friendly tournaments in South Africa, Simiyu is optimistic the team would have worked out all their errors and team chemistry before heading to Tokyo.
“We are happy with the performance of the team so far in the last three pre-Olympic invitational tournaments. Getting match fitness has been our key agenda especially after a long layoff due to Covid-19 pandemic,” said Simiyu.
“We need to tick all the vital boxes; breakdown, tackle completion and kick off receipt. We have been having a challenge with these areas and we aim at improving on them."
Shujaa finished second at the Rugby Africa Solidarity Sevens second leg tournament that ended on Sunday at Markötter Stadium, Stellenbosch in South Africa.
Shujaa, who were using the tournament as part of their preparations for the Tokyo Olympic Games, lost 31-5 to South Africa 1 in the final of the two-day event.
This was Kenya’s fourth consecutive loss against the Blitzboks in the tournament. 
The coach said their focus turns to their last pre-Olympic tournament in USA next month.
With the Tokyo Olympic Games quickly approaching, Quest for Gold Sevens has confirmed international men’s and women’s teams to compete in an exhibition tournament at Dignity Health Sports Park in Los Angeles from June 25-26.
Kenya will start preparations earlier next month ahead of the Quest for Gold 7s. USA, Argentina, Samoa and Korea have confirmed participation in the event.
“For us, we need to go back home and continue with Olympic Games journey and hopefully by the time we get to Los Angeles, we will be able to tick more boxes and be in a position where we can perform well at the Olympic games,” he added.
“With the government support, we need to keep working hard and improving our game.”
KCB winger Jacob Ojee is the only player doubtful for the US tournament after he picked up a left leg injury in South Africa.
Meanwhile, the national women’s Sevens team, Kenya Lionesses, have also confirmed participation in the US pre-Olympic tourney.
With a majority of the participating teams being regulars on the HSBC World Rugby Sevens Series, the exhibition sets a perfect stage for pre-Olympic trials ahead of the Tokyo Games.
Three Nakuru High School students hope to become top rugby professionals after passing KCSE exams
From left Michael Denga, Brian Njoroge and Moses Furore at Nakuru High school on May 13, 2021.
Having catapulted Nakuru High School to become regional champions in East Africa Schools Games, three ace rugby players scored straight As (KCSE 2020) in different subjects and want to become top professionals.
As much as they were top players in the first school team, they are out to emerge as top professionals in their respective academic professions at the universities.
Brian Njoroge (eighthman), Michael Denga (centre) and scrum-half Moses Furore are ready to begin a new chapter in their academic lives after a marvellous performance in the recently released KCSE examinations, a move that has prompted regional rugby tactician and the school's principal Mike Yator to appeal to national selectors to focus on the trio as potential future star players.
"They excelled in the pitch and as well in their academics. I appeal to national coaches to give them a chance at the national teams while pursuing their studies at the universities,” said Yator.
The trio of Njoroge, Denga and Furore, who all are aged 18 years, scored Mean Grades of A (81 points), A- (76 points) and B+ (68 points) want to study Civil Engineering, Marine Engineering and Law respectively.
Interestingly, the trio had scored over 300 marks in their KCPE Examinations with Njoroge scoring 380, Denga 368 and Furore 351 marks.
Besides their academic excellence, none of them is ready to stop playing rugby.
They hope to proceed with it at the university with an eye of hoping to be selected into the National Sevens and Fifteens teams.
"Rugby is part of my diet and it will remain so at the university," said Njoroge who scored five straight As in Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Geography and Art and Designs.
Denga, who is the first school rugby captain in the institution's history, said the sport had inspired his academic progress.
"Had it not been rugby and the discipline it carries with it, I believe my performance in this exam would have been different today.
"This is because the inspiration instilled in us during our training sessions was carried to the classroom in equal measure and it motivated me to catch up with the rest in the class to emerge as the best ever school rugby captain,"  a confident Denga stated.
On his part, Furore who wants to study Law at the University of Nairobi, thanked Kenya Lionesses Head Coach Felix Oloo for his inspiration and skills learnt in the training sessions at Nakuru RFC Development Program while still at New Life School Academy in Nakuru Municipality.
"That is where I started my rugby career as a junior player while still in primary school and rose through the ranks in development sides to become a refined player for my school team," Furore told The Standard Sports.
The trio was in the Nakuru RFC development side that toured United Kingdom in 2015, Kigali, Rwanda in 2018 and Jinja, Uganda in 2019 in junior rugby championships.
In the United Kingdom where they participated in the Festivals of Rugby, Nakuru RFC III finished runners up, won the Rwanda Connect to Africa Rugby Championships in 2018 and also finished runners up in Jinja Connect to Africa Rugby Championships the following year (2019).
While thanking their principal Yator and school coach Reynold Kaunda, the trio said in unison that experiences shaped their life in general.
Yator said the record set by the trio is a precedent that will go a long way in being emulated by many players who will pass through different coaches in the school's rugby history.
"This is a rich rugby history mixed with rich academic records that will live to be remembered to inspire more players who'll aspire to emulate them," Yator, who is also a qualified athletics and rugby coach, said.
The talented youngsters look forward to being selected by the Joint Universities Academic Board(JAB) and pursue courses of their dreams.
Shujaa finish second at Rugby Africa Solidarity 7s camp
Kenya Sevens team Shujaa finished second at the Rugby Africa Solidarity Sevens second leg tournament that ended on Saturday at Markötter Stadium, Stellenbosch in South Africa.
Shujaa, who were using the tournament as part of their preparations for the Tokyo Olympic Games, suffered a 31-5 defeat to South Africa 1 in the finals of the two-day event. This was Kenya's fourth consecutive loss against the Blitzboks in the tournament. 
South Africa 1 took the lead through Sako Makata via a cross-kick and chase before Selvyn Davids stretched the lead to 12-0 after grounding another cross kick.
Selvyn Davids would then set up Angelo Davids on the left wing for the third try before Angelo stretched the lead to 24-0 with another good kick.
Alvin Otieno pulled one try back for Kenya but Muller du Preez would hit the final nail on the win with a late try to make the score 31-5
Earlier on, Billy Odhiambo scored a brace as Kenya edged out Uganda 31-7. Herman Humwa, Daniel Taabu and Bush Mwale’s tries saw Kenya register their third win of the tournament.
Shujaa now shift focus to their last pre-Olympic tournament in USA next month.
The Rugby Africa Sevens camp acted as a competitive training camp including two tournament weekends for host South Africa, Uganda, Zimbabwe and Kenya ahead of the Summer Games
Kenya Sevens team Shujaa started the second day of the final leg of the Rugby Africa Solidarity Sevens friendly tournament on a high note after thrashing Uganda 31-7 in match played at Markötter Stadium in Stellenbosch on Sunday.
Billy Odhiambo scored a brace as Herman Humwa, Daniel Taabu and Bush Mwale’s tries saw Kenya register their third win out of the four matches played so far in South Africa.
Kenya took an early 5-0 lead after a missed conversion in the opening minutes of the match after Odhiambo touchdown in the left corner from a quick restart by Humwa after overturning possession on a Ugandan attack.
Odhiambo soon made it 12-0 after Tony Omondi’s conversion. Collins Injera’s clever pass of the rack found an unmarked Odhiambo who raced to the try line to dot Kenya’s second try of the match.
Shujaa will soon after run away with the game after Herman Humwa touched down between the post for a 19-0 lead after Omondi’s conversion.
Uganda would grab a late try after the hooter after Nobert Okeny raced past the Kenyan defense to land their only try of the match before Tim Kisiga added the conversion as Shujaa went to the break leading 19-7.
In the final half, Daniel Taabu and Bush Mwale sealed the win with two more tries as Kenya won comfortably with a 31-7 score.
Kenya will be back in action again against South Africa 1.
Maseno School rugby players qualify for university after passing KCSE exams
Kenya National Secondary School Rugby heavyweights Maseno School have sent all their rugby players to the university.
This is after all 21 players from the Kisumu based secondary school scored C+ and above in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) that were released on Monday.
Speaking to The Standard Sports, Maseno School rugby coach Paul Nyamita said he is proud of all his 21 players who featured in both 7s and 15s school teams.
“Covid-19 spoiled the game but we won academic battle. All my smart rugby players are joining university. I am very proud and humbled to be part of this amazing school,” said Nyamita who doubles as Maseno School’s English teacher.
Two players scored A-(minus), three B+(plus), five B(plain), seven B-(minus) and the remaining four C+(plus).
Influential players Peter Ogoti and Agoro Mitch scored A- as Jack Mungala, Emmanuel Odhiambo and Samwel Oketch scored B+.
Generally, Maseno School topped Kisumu County with a mean of 9.58 points with 448 students out of 462 scoring direct to university mean grade of C+ and above. 24 students scored A (plains) and 121 students got A-(minus).
Five time national rugby 7s champions Maseno School had just qualified for the Nyanza Regional Secondary School Games when the coronavirus pandemic struck, blowing away the schools dream of lifting the 2020 Kenya National Secondary School rugby 7s and 15s title.
However, Nyamita said he called upon his players to forget about rugby and turn their attention to academics, a move that played out to be successful.
“I told my rugby players to quickly shift focus to academic after learning that Covid-19 will interfere with sports not only in Kenya but globally. They didn't disappoint. I can’t even describe how I am feeling right now,” said Nyamita, an author of English Demystified Revision Paper 1,2 and 3 series.
Africa Zone Three super heavyweight champion Elly Ajowi is confident the National Boxing Team will give its best in the Konstantin Korotkov Memorial International Tournament in the city of Khabarovsk in Russia starting Monday.
The nine-day competition to run from Monday to May 16 has attracted top European boxing nations and three countries in Africa in Kenya, Morocco and Algeria.
 Fresh from winning a gold medal in the Africa Zone Three Boxing Championships in Kinshasa, the Democratic Republic of Congo in March, Ajowi said the team is ready to revert to its original place in the global boxing map as was in the seventies and eighties.
He said the Russian championships will give them the right atmosphere against refined boxers drawn from Europe and the rest of the world in readiness for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics in Japan in two and half months.
"Such tournaments give us confidence and the right atmosphere to take part in serious competitions and therefore it has come at the right time before we head to Olympics," Ajowi told Standard Sports.
Four boxers have qualified for the Olympics and are expected to jet out of Jomo Kenyatta International Airport today.
The quartet includes Ajowi, 2015 African Boxing Championships lightweight gold medallist Nick Okoth, Commonwealth Games flyweight bronze medallist Christine Ongare and national lightweight champion Elizabeth Akinyi.
The four boxers will be handled by three coaches led by Head Coach Musa Benjamin and assistant coaches David Munuhe and John Waweru while the team manager is Linus Ouma.
Boxing Federation of Kenya Communications Director Duncan Kuria and international referee cum judge Nelson Otieno are other qualified officials approved to accompany the team. 
Otieno will officiate in the tournament having faced a similar assignment in the Kinshasa Championships and during the World Military Games in South Korea in 2015.
Otieno was impressed by his appointment to officiate in Russia and promised to give his best at a time Confederation of African Boxing((CAB) is equally shopping for officials from the continent to officiate in Japan.
"Accompanying teams during national assignments gives us and players confidence required that can assure them of fair officiating in international assignments," he told Standard Sports.
Head Coach Musa Benjamin said morale was high among the four players who have been training for the past five weeks at AV Fitness Centre in Lavington, Nairobi.
Admitting it is a tough tournament, Benjamin said the four players are in the right frame of mind for the tournament but are ready to give their best before they head for the Olympics.
"The tournament is the right platform that gives our players the right exposure against competitive opponents before we head to the Olympics," he said.
The team is also scheduled to feature in another international assignment in the Phillipines next month, which will be the final friendly assignment before they head to Japan.
Meanwhile, the Moroccan team of four boxers are already in Russia preparing for the Olympics.
They are featherweight Mohammed Hammoud, welterweight Abdelahaq Nadir, light heavyweight Mohammed Assaghir and heavyweight Youness Baala.
Kenya’s Otieno voted best referee in Russian boxing tournament
Kenya’s top international referee cum judge Nelson Otieno was voted one of the best referees in the Konstatin Korotkov Memorial International Boxing Championships that ended in Russia over the weekend.
Otieno who was the only African referee in the nine-day tournament officiated several matches, with his last one being the semifinal featherweight match between Tomo Tsuboi of Japan and Azerbaijan's Umoid Rystamnov.
Previously, he had officiated in the Africa Zone Three Boxing Championships in Kinshasa, the Democratic Republic of Congo in March after having taken part in the World Military Games in South Korea in 2015.
"It is a big honour given to me and Kenya and hope to continue in the same spirit in future international assignments," Otieno told Standard Sports.
The tournament attracted three African countries: Kenya, Morocco and Algeria.
 Kenya is the only country in Africa that produced a referee to officiate in the tournament.
As Otieno was being given a standing ovation at Lenina International Sports Complex-Stadium in the city of Khabarovsk, two Kenyan boxers also received their bronze medals.
They include 2015 Africa Boxing Championships lightweight (60kg) Gold medallist Nick 'Commander' Okoth and double Olympian and Africa Zone Three super heavyweight (over 91kg) Gold medalist Elly Ajowi.
Okoth was beaten in the featherweight (57kg) semifinals on a unanimous decision by Russia's Ovik Oganisyan while Ajowi lost his quarterfinal match against Uzberkistan's Madiyar Saidrahmov.
Commonwealth Games flyweight (48kg) bronze medalist Christine Ongare and National lightweight (58kg) champion Elizabeth Akinyi finished fifth in their respective weight categories.
The four boxers were handled by three coaches led by Musa Benjamin and assistant coaches David Munuhe and John Waweru while Linus Ouma was the team manager.
African Boxing Union (ABU) middleweight champion Rayton 'Boom Boom' Okwiri turned professional after his amazing show at the 2016 Rio Olympics in Brazil.
Since then, he has been on and off the paid ranks following announcement by World amateur boxing body AIBA allowing pro boxers to qualify and compete in the Olympics.
He took advantage of this reprieve last year to take part in the Tokyo Olympics qualifiers in Dakar, Senegal where two Kenyan pugilists punched their tickets to the Summer Games.
Unlucky Okwiri returned home to carry on with his professional boxing, successfully defending his ABU title on December 14 in Nairobi.
His professional stint, which has not yielded much in terms of revenues, seems to have taken a lucrative turn on Friday when Kenya Professional Boxing Commission (KPBC) announced his forthcoming title fight against a yet to be named Russian opponent.
The World Boxing Organisation (WBO) duel slated for August in Nairobi has attracted global quarters including former world heavyweight champion Mike Tyson, Floyd Mayweather's The Money Team Promotions and sport and technology firm Bet22 Kenya.
The fact that the bout has attracted big boys in the sport is a clear indication that the pugilist is set to reap big in the duel.
Also, Bet22 Kenya coming on board to sponsor his stay and training in Florida, USA ahead of the fight in addition to Sh350,000 to cater for his training expenses tells a lot about the magnitude of the fight.
Will he finally get his breakthrough in the paid ranks? Only time will tell.
Okwiri has been upping his exercises at the historic Pal Pal gym under head coach David Kiilu to prepare for the WBO fight.
"I have been engaging in strength and conditioning schedule in addition to the skills and sparring techniques," he told The Standard Sports.
His weekly routine involves long distance jogging at the weekend, shadow boxing on Mondays, normal training on Tuesdays, sparring sessions on Wednesdays, another normal training on Thursdays and another sparring session on Fridays.
In order to take his fitness to the next level, Okwiri will now travel to the USA to engage in high profile training.
"I'll be based in Florida till August under Raynelo Promotions," he said.
Okwiri will engage in competitive sparring in the US to gain exposure ahead of the fight.
"There are no worthy sparring partners in Kenya right now, most of the opponents I have get tired easily.
"While in the US, I'll be training in a state of the art gym with all the equipment. This will put me at par with my opponent," he said.
Okwiri is grateful that his trip and stay in America has been fully sponsored by betting firm  Bet22 Kenya.
"With the Sh350,000 received, I'll buy gloves, pads, boots, tracksuits, headgear, skipping ropes among other training paraphanelias," he said.
Sam Malonza, 22Bet Kenya General Manager said they chose to sponsor Okwiri because the pugilist has potential.
"We supported him last December when he successfully defended his ABU title. We are glad he didn't disappoint," Malonza said.
Malonza explained The Money Team (TMT) Promotions by American boxer Floyd Mayweather and former world heavyweight champion Mike Tyson have agreed to be part of the forthcoming bout.
"We look forward to hosting Tyson in Nairobi soon before the fight," said Malonza.
Africa Boxing Union Middleweight Champion Rayton Okwiri (left) punches Democratic Republic of Congo's Augustine Matata during the Africa Boxing Union middleweight championship at Charter Hall in Nairobi on Saturday night, Dec 14, 2019.
Kiilu who is a former World Boxing Union and World Boxing Federation champion is happy that Okwiri has finally landed on a sponsorship deal to aid his fights.
"Now we have no financial problems, it's our turn to deliver the belt home," said Kiilu.
Kiilu will engage Okwiri online to monitor the boxers progress in the US.
Okwiri's Manager, Ahmed Juma believes the boxer will return to Kenya sharper and ready to deliver the coveted belt.
Kenya Professional Boxing Commission (KPBC) President, Reuben Ndolo said the federation and WBO will announce Okwiri's opponent in due course.
He also challenged Bet22 to sponsor other young boxers because they are the future of the sport.
"Okwiri was initially to fight Moshea Aleem of USA on May 19, but this did not take place due to the ongoing covid pandemic," said KPBC Secretary General Frankline Imbenzi.
"When I started boxing my dream was to represent Kenya in the Olympics (Rio 2016), own a continental belt (ABU) and now I'm focused to win a World title."-ABU champion Rayton Okwiri.
Coaches: Kenyan boxers earned required exposure in Russia ahead of Tokyo Olympics
Kenya finished second behind Morocco in Africa with two bronze medals as the curtains came down on the Konstatin Korotkov International Boxing Championships in the city of Khabarovsk, Russia on Saturday.
The two medals were won by captain and 2015 Africa Boxing Championships lightweight gold medalist Nick 'Commander' Okoth and two-time Olympian and Africa Zone Three super heavyweight gold medalist Elly Ajowi.
Okoth dropped in the semi finals of the featherweight (57kg) when he lost the bout on a unanimous decision against Ovik Oganisyan of Russia while Ajowi was beaten by Madiyar Saidrahmov of UzbekistanUzbekistan on a similar decision.
Commonwealth Games flyweight bronze medallist Christine Ongare finished fifth alongside national welterweight champion Elizabeth Akinyi after all of them lost in the first rounds in their respective weight categories.
Immediately after the match, Okoth admitted having lost to a better boxer after he slacked in the last two rounds after a better start in the first round but was contented with the bronze medal.
"I started the match well in the first round but relaxed in the last two rounds for my opponent to turn tables on me. However, I'm happy with the achievement. A bronze medal is better than nothing," he told The Standard Sports.
Head Coach Musa Benjamin said the tournament had assisted them to know the strengths and weaknesses of each boxer for proper review ahead of the future international championships.
"The tournament is of great importance to us as it has assisted the technical bench on areas we need to address before we head to Japan for 2020 Tokyo Olympics," Benjamin said.
His (Benjamin's) deputy, David Munuhe said boxers did their best in the tournament but was quick to point out that they were fighting better opponents exposed to quality facilities compared to them.
He added that it could have been a grave mistake had they missed the tournament.
"Such competitions are of great help to us especially at such a time when we are preparing for serious international championships," Munuhe pointed out.
National Olympic Committee - Kenya, (NOCK) treasurer Anthony Kariuki who was the leader of the delegation said it was very crucial to involve the team in another international friendly competition before they head to Japan.
"Kenyans played against young refined boxers they could face in Tokyo and since it was an important tournament that had exposed them, it'll be prudent if we could involve them in another event of such magnitude before heading to Japan," Kariuki stated.
Christine Ongare in action against Diana Gorishnaya of Estonia during the Konstantin Korotkov Memorial International Boxing Championships in Khabarovsk, Russia, on Wednesday, May 12, 2021
His statement coincided with Boxing Federation of Kenya's earlier plans of sending the same team to the Philippines ahead of the Olympics.
Last week, BFK's Competitions' Secretary John Waweru confirmed they had written to the Kenyan Government on their intention to travel to the Philippines upon their return from Russia.
Team manager Linus Ouma said it was important to start the recruitment and training of young boxers in the grassroots at tender ages and expose them at the international level before climbing up the ranks to the senior teams.
"This is the way forward to measure with the standards seen in Russia. That's the way to go if we are to regain our previous status of a global boxing powerhouse," he said.
During the nine-day tournament, Kenya's top referee cum judge Nelson Otieno was the only technical official from Africa who was appointed to officiate in it despite the competition having also attracted Morocco and Algeria.
Team Captain Nick Okoth won a bronze medal in the featherweight division (57kg)
Olympian Elly Ajowi won a bronze medal in the super heavyweight (over 91kg).
Flyweight(48kg) Christine Ongare and welterweight (69kg) Elizabeth Akinyi finished fifth in their respective weight categories.
Boxing legend Mike Tyson to grace Rayton Okwiri's WBO title fight in Nairobi
Africa Boxing Union (ABU) middleweight champion Rayton 'Boom Boom' Okwiri is stepping up training for a World Boxing Organisation title fight slated for August in Nairobi.
The duel, pitting the Olympian against a Russian opponent is also supported by Mike Tyson and Floyd Mayweather TMT Promotions.
Okwiri has been upping his exercises at the historic Pal Pal gym under head coach David Kiilu ahead of the crunch tie.
In order to take his fitness to the next level, Okwiri will travel to the USA next week to engage in a high profile training.
"There are no worthy sparring partners in Kenya right now, most of the opponents I have got tired easily.
Okwiri's trip and stay in America was sponsored on Friday by betting firm 22Bet.
In this file photo taken on September 19, 2019, former world heavyweight champion Mike Tyson before the start of the Tennessee Titans at Jacksonville Jaguars in Jacksonville, Florida
In addition, the firm gave him Sh350,000 to cater for his training gears.
"With this money, I'll buy gloves, pads, boots, tracksuits, headgear, skipping ropes among other training paraphernalia," he said.
Sam Malonza, 22Bet General Manager said they chose to sponsor Okwiri because the pugilist has potential.
"We look forward to host Tyson in Nairobi soon before the fight," said Malonza.
Kiilu will engage Okwiri online to monitor the boxer’s progress in the US.
"Okwiri was initially to fight Moshea Aleem of USA on May 19, but this did not take place due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic," said KPBC Secretary General Frankline Imbenzi.
"When I started boxing my dream was to represent Kenya in the Olympics (Rio 2016), own a continental belt (ABU) and now I'm focused to win a World title." ABU champion Rayton Okwiri.
Kenya’s Nick Okoth and Elly Ajowi bow out of Russian boxing tournament
Kenya captain Nick Okoth and two time Olympic champion Elly Ajowi have bowed out of the Konstantin Korotkov Memorial International Boxing Championships in Russia.
Okoth who is the 2015 Africa Boxing Championships lightweight gold medalist lost in the semi-finals in the featherweight (57kg), while Ajowi who is the reigning Africa Zone Three super heavyweight champion was beaten in the quarter-finals.
Okoth was beaten by Russian Ovik Oganisyan on a unanimous points decision.
All five judges gave Oganisyan a total victory of 30-27, 30-26, 30-27, 30-27 and 30-28 at Lenina Regional Sports Complex in the city of Khabarovsk on Friday.
Oganisyan will face the winner of the semi-final match between Tomo Tsuboi of Japan and Umoid Rystamnov of Azerbaijan, to be officiated by Kenyan referee Nelson Otieno.
Okoth was happy to have won a bronze medal in the tournament admitting he made several mistakes in the first and second round, which cost him the victory.
“This was a tournament meant to prepare us for the Tokyo Olympics and the mistakes we made here (Russia), will be corrected by our coaches,” he told The Standard Sports.
The technical bench was headed by Musa Benjamin with the assistance of David Munuhe and John Waweru.
On Monday, Benjamin said losing and winning was part of their mission in Russia but what mattered was the team to gain exposure on the kind of boxers they could meet in Japan.
“What mattered on our part was to have the boxers get the required exposure before we head to Japan,” said the head coach.
Ajowi, who was taking his first match in the quarter-finals was beaten on a unanimous points decision by Madiyar Saidrahimov of Uzbekistan.
The five judges gave Saidrahimov a victory of 30-27, 30-27, 30-27, 30-27 and 30-27 to cruise into the finals where he’ll face off with Lazizbek Mullozhonov of Uzbekistan.
On the way to the finals, Mullozhonov had beaten Andrey Stocky of Russia in the second semi-final match.
Okoth and Ajowi join compatriots Commonwealth Games flyweight bronze medalist Christine Ongare and national welterweight champion Elizabeth Akinyi, who have equally bowed out of the tournament.
Ongare finished in the fifth position in the flyweight.
On her part, Akinyi was happy to have participated in the tournament saying: ”it was my first time to have travelled this far and for sure it has enhanced my confidence in the future international matches.”
The team was using the tournament to shape up for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics to be held in Japan from July 23 to August 8.
Top Kenyan referee Nelson Otieno was the only referee from the continent who officiated in the seven-day tournament.
The team is expected back in the country on Monday.
Nick Okoth becomes first African boxer to win in Russia
The 2015 Africa Boxing Championships lightweight (60kg) gold medalist Nick ‘Commander’ Okoth became the first African boxer to win his bout in the ongoing Konstantin Korotkov Memorial International Boxing Championships at Lenina Regional Sports Complex - Stadium in the city of Khabarovsk, Russia.
Okoth, who plied in the featherweight (57kg), beat Kishko Sergei of Ukraine on unanimous points’ decision to cruise into the semi-finals on the fourth day (Thursday) of the tournament.
All the five Russian judges in Radnaev Baryato, Rymyacencev Semen, Liskyn Andrey, Moiseev Oleg, Shevchenko Aleksey and Shalimov Uriy gave Okoth a thumbs up on a 5-0 win of 29-28, 30-27, 30-27, 30-27 and 30-27 respectively.
“It was a good but difficult match, which I easily won. My opponent was good and applied too much force but I defended myself well following instructions from my coaches who kept shouting them at the touchline,” Okoth told The Standard Sports in a post-match interview.
It was a sweet victory for the experienced Okoth, who strolled to victory in all three rounds of the epic match against the Russian.
Okoth takes on Ovik Oganisyan of Russia in semi-finals this afternoon.
And the victory was a big relief to the technical bench led by Musa Benjamin with the assistance of David Munuhe and John Waweru following a double loss for female boxers in the opening matches.
“It was a tough match for Okoth but he came out victorious because he followed our touchline instructions. Fights will be tough but we are ready for any eventuality. The win was good for the team,” said Benjamin.
The female players who lost in the opening matches were Commonwealth Games flyweight bronze medalist Christine Ongare and national welterweight champion Elizabeth Akinyi.
Ongare was beaten on unanimous points’ decision by Diana Gorishnaya of Estonia while Akinyi lost to Maria Moronto of Dominican Republic also on points.
Benjamin said their prime objective in Russia was to give the four players exposure against refined opponents ahead of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.
“This tournament came at the right time to prepare players for the big games after a long lay-off due to Coronavirus pandemic. It is giving us exposure on possibilities of meeting the same opponents in preliminary matches at the Olympics,” Benjamin told The Standard Sports.
Ongare blamed her defeat on temper after she was severally held and pushed by her opponent without the intervention of the referee.
“My opponent kept on holding on me as she pushed me around, which made me lose temper and control of the game against Gorishnaya without intervention of the referee who instead penalized me,” Ongare told The Standard Sports from Russia.
However, she said the standards in Europe were far ahead of Africa as it gave her the experience required to take part in the Olympics.
On her part, Akinyi was not aggressive against Moronto (Maria) in the first two rounds only to recover in the third one but by then it was too late to catch up with her opponent.
Benjamin said a cut sustained by Akinyi in her mouth also contributed to her defeat as she kept on backpedalling in the last two rounds.
“It was too late for her to beat her in the third round with the cut,” said Benjamin.
Out of the four boxers, it is only two-time Olympian and Africa Zone Three super heavyweight champion Elly Ajowi who is yet to take the ring.
False start for Kenyans, Ongare and Akinyi knocked out in Russia
Bronze medallists Kenya's Christine Ongare (L) and Australia's Taylah Robertson pose with their medals during the medal ceremony for the women's 51kg boxing event during the 2018 Gold Coast Commonwealth Games at the Oxenford Studios venue on the Gold Coast on April 14, 2018
Commonwealth Games flyweight bronze medalist Christine Ongare and national bantamweight champion Elizabeth Akinyi have been knocked out of the on-going Konstantin Korotkov Memorial International Boxing Championships after losing their opening bouts in Khabarovsk, Russia yesterday.
Ongare lost to Diana Gorishnaya of Estonia on unanimous points’ decision at Lenina Regional Sports Complex before Akinyi was beaten by Maria Moronto of the Dominican Republic.
The two boxers were eliminated in the early stages of the seven-day tournament.
The competition has attracted players from Africa, Europe and Asia, who are using it as part of their preparations for the Tokyo Olympic Games slated for July 23 to August 8 in Japan.
Other countries representing Africa are Morocco and Algeria.
Kenya and Morocco have entered four players each, while Algeria sent three players to the tournament.
Though disappointed by the duo’s early exit, head coach Musa Benjamin says the event will give the Kenyan team a lot of exposure ahead of the Olympics.
“Our main objective is to ensure players get exposure whether they win or lose matches. Their performance here (Russia) will help us shape them for the Olympics,” said Benjamin.
Africa Zone Three super heavyweight champion Elly Ajowi (over 91kg) and the 2015 Africa Boxing Championships lightweight (60kg) gold medalist Nick Okoth are set to take into the ring later today.
Cohesion in Boxing Federation of Kenya promotes formidable working partnership
The cohesion in the executive committee of Boxing Federation of Kenya is the drive that has seen the effective performance of the National Boxing Team in the recent international boxing championships.
The BFK led by President Anthony ‘Jamal’ Ombok was elected into the office in 2019 and has since involved the national boxing team in a number of international matches.
International referee cum judge Nelson Otieno said proper planning by the national boxing governing body is what has seen several appointed Kenyan officials and teams do well in international championships.
“This is the way to go if we are to revert to the previous standards witnessed in the seventies and eighties that saw Kenya get respected globally at a time we were in the same class with world boxing powerhouses like Cuba and United States of America,” said Otieno.
The past year has seen a number of coaches get trained by International Boxing Association (AIBA) certified experts in workshops.
Kenya recently took part in the Konstatin Korotkov Memorial Boxing Championships hosted in the city of Khabarovsk, Russia where they won two bronze medals from a representation of four boxers.
The four were captain and 2015 Africa Boxing Championships lightweight gold medalist Nick Okoth, Olympian and Africa Zone Three super heavyweight gold medalist Elly Ajowi, Commonwealth Games flyweight bronze medalist Christine Ongare and national welterweight champion Elizabeth Akinyi.
The two bronze medals were won by Okoth and Ajowi.
BFK treasurer Musa Benjamin said theirs is to give all officials an equal opportunity to excel in their respective fields.
“Our work is to give all boxers and officials an equal opportunity to progress their careers in their respective specialities,” said Benjamin
Otieno is one of the most respected referees cum judges in Africa and the world over.
He was recently appointed to officiate in the Russia Championships before he was voted as one of the best referees of the tournament.
Other respected Kenyan international referees and judges are Rebecca Wambui, Steve Ndung’u and Samuel Otie
Referee Nelson Otieno awards Emanual Olai (right) of Kampala City Council Middleweight title after beating Arnold Ochieng of Kenya during the 4th Harold Obunga memorial tournament at Kaloleni handball grounds on Dec 2, 2017.
Prior to that, he (Otieno) had officiated in the Africa Zone Three Boxing Championships in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo in March 2021 following his appointment by Confederation of African Boxing (CAB).
Otieno also officiated in the World Military Games in South Korea in 2015.
He looks forward to being appointed to officiate in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.
“Hopefully, I may be appointed to officiate in the Olympics but all that is still not confirmed. If given the opportunity, I’ll be ready to offer my services at the big games,” he said.
Boxing coach Musa Benjamin: We hope Government will approve our trip to Philippines ahead of Olympics
National Boxing Team head coach Musa Benjamin is still hopeful the Government will approve their trip to the Philippines for the final international friendly boxing championships before they head to Japan for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.
If the trip is not feasible, Benjamin said they'll still be contented with another one in any of the top European boxing nations preferably Denmark, Ukraine or Germany.
Speaking exclusively to The Standard Sports three days after their arrival from Russia where they took part in the Konstatin Korotkov Memorial International Boxing Championships, Benjamin said that was the way to go in preparations for international assignments.
"Another tournament of the same magnitude like the Russian Championships is what we need to strengthen and spur confidence and performance of boxers before we start official residential training at Moi International Sports Centre in Kasarani," Benjamin said.
He said boxers also need time to heal and rest before residential training and appealed for approval of the trip in good time to involve the same four boxers who featured in the Russian Championships
Christine Ongare in action against Diana Gorishnaya of Estonia during the Konstantin Korotkov Memorial International Boxing Championships in Khabarovsk, Russia, on Wednesday May 12, 2021.
It is the quartet of captain and 2015 Africa Boxing Championships lightweight gold medalist Nick Okoth, Olympian and Africa Zone Three super heavyweight gold medalist Elly Ajowi, Commonwealth Games flyweight bronze medalist Christine Ongare and national welterweight champion Elizabeth Akinyi.
"This trip is also ideal for us as earlier planned among the two international friendly tournaments we were to attend ahead of the official residential training camp," the National coach told The Standard Sports.
However, it seems time is not on their side as all Kenyan teams that have qualified for the Olympics are scheduled to enter residential training in the next three weeks.
The Kenyan teams that have already qualified for the games are the National Sevens rugby teams for men and women - Shujaa and Kenya Lionesses, the National Women Volleyball team- Malkia Strikers, Athletics Squad, judo and shooting teams.
Benjamin said on Friday his main aim is to have the four boxers reach the medal bracket at the Olympics and possibly win them.
"It is the reason we urge the Government to approve our trip to the Philippines or to one of the top European boxing nations," he said.
He said the world over all teams that have already qualified for Olympics enter special training three months before the games and take part in several international friendly matches.
"Since time immemorial, teams whose boxers reach the medal bracket at the Olympics are those whose countries take their time to involve their boxers in numerous international matches. And we should not be an exception," he said.
While thanking the Government for their trip to Russia, he said players and the technical bench had learnt a lot from it and thanks the way to go in future international championships.
Kenya Open champion Kibet ready to roar to Grand Slam arena
He is a two-time Davis Cup and Kenya Open winner
He is upbeat of making it to Europe contests despite missing Euro/Africa Group II tournament earlier this year.
It took four years for Ibrahim Kibet to end his four-year wait for a major title when he won the 2018 Kenya Open after shocking top seed Ismael Changawa 7-5, 6-4.
Kibet, who boast superb groundstrokes and endurance, always unleashes sterling shows on the court.
But beyond his wide smile that radiates with milky teeth, stands a 24-year-old man with lofty dreams – he longs to compete at the European Championships within a few years.
“After many unsuccessful attempts, I chose not to give up and it paid dividends in 2018 when I won the Kenya Open title. I have a self-belief that slid me to victory.
“In the same spirit, I will strive to attain my dream of playing in the world championships,” he said.
Kibet said he is ready to start afresh after taking time off during the coronavirus pandemic which, he says, is a blessing in disguise –more importantly –coming after suffering Davis Cup heartbreak in Indonesia earlier this year.
Kenya's hope of featuring in the Euro/Africa Group 2 tournament later in September this year were shattered in March after Ismael Changawa and Ibrahim Kibet lost 6-7, 7-6, 7-6 to Christopher Rungkat and David Susanto of Indonesia in the best-of-five Euro/Africa Group 2 playoffs at the Gelora Bung Karno tennis court in Jarkarta.
The last time Kenya qualified for Euro/Africa Group 2 was in 1992 where they were eliminated in the semi finals, falling just one match shy of the World Group 1 play offs but Kibet is confident of replaying the feat next year.
“Losing the opportunity to take part in the Euro/Africa Group 2 tournament scheduled for September this year was my lowest moment but I am not giving up. I have to make it. I believe that with proper training nothing is impossible,” he said.
Kibet, the Kenya seed three, now focusses on qualifying and, perhaps, winning the postponed ITF 15K Futures Tournament and with a dream of making it to one of the Grand Slams in future.
“I have been training and working hard with individual training under guidance of my coaches with hope of winning the Futures Tournament.
“It will be great if I qualify for one of the Grand Slams, with Wimbledon as my dream competition because I play well on the grass,” he said.
Kibet is looking forward to defend his Kenya Open title and aims to win his third Davis Cup crown, having won the awards in 2018 and 2019.
“My main goal this year is to finish the year as Kenya’s tennis top seed if all goes well in post coronavirus pandemic. I know it won’t be easy with Changawa’s consistency but I believe in myself.”
He started playing tennis at the age of eight while studying at Mombasa Primary School after being influenced by his grandfather and trained by his coach and mentor Lawrence Karanja.
Naomi Osaka fined Sh1.6 million for media boycott, could face expulsion from French Open
Japan's Naomi Osaka could be thrown out of the French Open if she continues to boycott post-match news conferences at the tournament, the board of Grand Slam tennis tournaments said on Sunday.
Osaka, who was fined 15,000 dollars for skipping the news conference after her first-round victory at Roland Garros, could also face suspension from other Grand Slam tournaments, the board added.
The four-times Grand Slam champion said earlier this week she would not face the media during the French Open, citing mental health reasons.
Men’s world number one tennis player Djokovic tests positive for COVID-19
Novak Djokovic, the men’s world number one tennis player, has tested positive for COVID-19, the Serbian said in a statement on Tuesday.
Croatia’s Borna Coric, Grigor Dimitrov of Bulgaria and Viktor Troicki have previously tested positive after playing in Djokovic’s Adria Tour exhibition tournament in the Balkan region.
“The moment we arrived in Belgrade we went to be tested,” the 33-year-old said in a statement, adding that he was not showing any symptoms. “My result is positive, just as Jelena’s (wife), while the results of our children are negative.
“I am extremely sorry for each individual case of infection. I hope that it will not complicate anyone’s health situation and that everyone will be fine. I will remain in self-isolation for the next 14 days, and repeat the test in five days.”
The tournament witnessed packed stands during the opening leg in Belgrade, players hugging at the net, playing basketball, posing for pictures and attending press conferences together.
Djokovic organised nights out in Belgrade for the players and pictures and videos of him dancing with the other participants at his event were posted on social media.
With both Serbia and Croatia easing lockdown measures weeks before the event, players were not obliged to observe social distancing rules in either country.
Djokovic said the idea behind his tournament was noble and he wanted to raise funds for players in need.
“Everything we did in the past month, we did with a pure heart and sincere intentions,” said Djokovic, who is also the head of the players council of the men’s ATP Tour. “Our tournament meant to unite and share a message of solidarity and compassion throughout the region.
“The Tour has been designed to help both established and up and coming tennis players from South-Eastern Europe to gain access to some competitive tennis while the various tours are on hold due to the COVID-19 situation.”
A following statement confirmed that the remainder of the Adria Tour had been cancelled, the two-day event on July 3 and 4 in Banja Luka, Bosnia and the planned exhibition match with Bosnian Damir Dzumhur in Sarajevo on July 5.
“We are extremely disappointed to have to cancel the events in Banja Luka and Sarajevo,” said Novak’s brother Djordje Djokovic, the director of the Adria Tour.
“We were looking forward to treating fans in these two cities to watching Novak Djokovic and other top players. Unfortunately, the recent events make everyone’s speedy recovery a top priority.”
Young Owegi targets ITF World Tennis Tour victory
Kenya will host women’s International Tennis Federation (ITF) World Tennis Tour in October.
Alicia Owegi, the Kenya seed three, defies every description of a dedicated and determined tennis player.
Her swift swings and steadiness set her apart with other tennis players.
Owegi’s bravery has seen her triumph in tension-packed courts.
Her court exploits have – and still are – well supplemented by her slender figure. And pride swells in her heart as she recounts her journey to fame.
“I long to become a professional tennis player,” said Owegi. “And I am just going to work hard every day.”
The 16-year-old girl is one of the top players in the country, ranked third nationally.
With a superb serve and good groundstrokes, Owegi is destined for greater achievements.
She won the ITF/CAT East African Junior championship singles and doubles in 2016 and reached the semifinals at the 2018 Kenya Open – a feat she is keen to surpass this year. 
She is now focused on winning the International Tennis Federation (ITF) Women’s World Tennis Tour.
"My target is to win the ITF World Tour. I believe I have what it takes. I need to improve and rectify the mistakes I made last year," she said. 
Despite the coronavirus pandemic, Owegi says she sticks to a special training programme to keep her fitness in preparation for the October games.
"I wake up in the morning and do some workouts before proceeding to school for online classes then embark on stretches and jogging," she added.
Kenya is set to host the women’s International Tennis Federation (ITF) World Tennis Tour in October this year.
The Tour, which will be held in Kenya for the second time, will attract 20 teams. 
Last year, 56 players battled it out for the Sh1.5 million top prize where Owegi was forced to start at the qualifying rounds as Angela Okutoyi, Faith Nyabera and Judith Nkatha were handed byes.
Owegi was introduced to tennis in school at the age of 10.   
She made her debut in 2012 during the Gymkhana Open under 12 Championships where she lost all matches and finished last. But she never gave up.
In 2016, she won gold at the ITF East Africa junior championship in both singles and doubles.
She represented Kenya at the All African Games in Rabat, Morocco, last year where they finished fourth before finishing runners up at the East Africa Zonal Championship last year and this year.
Cheruto: From slums to the top of Africa
She is keen to stage a comeback after Covid-19 pandemic
The 15-year-old high school student beat all odds to scale the continent’s heights of fame.
Her slender looks and the swift swings on the courts offer a spectacular sight.
And Cynthia Cheruto is a gifted tennis player who dismisses opponents in local and international tournaments without breaking a sweat. The 15-year-old girl is simply a talent in several fronts.
In the last seven years, Cheruto has produced remarkable performance in Kenya, Confederation of African Tennis (CAT) and International Tennis Federation (ITF) competitions.
Apart from winning the Star Challenge under-14 championship last year, she also won the under-14 Kenya Open and ITF/CAT East African Junior championship in Tanzania in 2018.
In 2016, she made her international debut in Morocco where he finished fourth in under-14 singles before her second outing in Egypt the same year, where she won a bronze medal.
The highlight of her journey to stardom came in 2018 when she won gold at the ITF/CAT East African Junior championship in Tanzania. She also 2018 Kenya Open under 14 category in singles and doubles.
“Winning the Kenya Open was a milestone for me even if it was in the junior category. It motivates me while in the court,” Cheruto, whose father was a footballer and mother a runner, said.
Last year, she won the Star Challenge under-14 tournament and reached semi finals of the International Tennis Federation Juniors event at Nairobi Club before taking part in ITF Algeria and South Africa Junior championships.
She also put her young muscles to test in a senior competition at the Women’s Futures championship where she reached the quarterfinals, a feat she longs to beat when she makes her senior debut this year.
“I can’t wait to play in senior events. Though I am still young, I believe I have what it takes to compete,” she said.
Cheruto, a student at Mbagathi Road Secondary School, hopes to attain a top 100 ITF ranking. She is currently ranked 2279 in the world junior ITF rankings.
She is keen on stepping out of the shadows of her role model and Kenya seed one Angela Okutoyi. As a Kenya tennis seed five, Cheruto has huge ambitions -- to take part in French Open, USA Open and Australia Open.
“Okutoyi is my role model. What she has achieved in her career is unbelievable. Her determination and hard work inspires me,” Cheruto said, adding that her role model is former World number one Serena Williams.
Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, she has a training regimen that she adheres to everyday to keep fit.
“I was 10 years old when I heard of tennis. Some organisation came to Kibra offering opportunities to children. I gave it a try and gradually I fell in love with the sport because it kept me busy and away from the streets,” she said.
Veronica Osogo, who is her coach, said Cheruto has a bright future in tennis. “Cheruto is a hard-working player. Even with the challenges she faces, tennis has made her focus,” she said.
Born and raised in Kibra, Cheruto started playing tennis while in Standard Four at Shadrack Kimalel Primary School.
Living in a place where lack of food and proper shelter were the order of the day, Osogo said tennis gave Cheruto solace from squalid lifestyle.
It was at Shadrack Kimalel Primary School that she stormed into the world stage. “I have been carrying out tennis programmes at the school since 2007 and when I saw Cheruto play, I knew at that time she was talented,” she said.
Ariel Okall upbeat of success with Titans in Uganda despite debut loss
Kenya Morans star Ariel Okall is optimistic of succeeding with the Kampala International University(KIU) Titans in the 2021 National Basketball League of Uganda (NBL).
The former Kenya Ports Authority forward signed with the Ugandan university side last week from AlBashaer Basketball Club after suspension of sports in Oman due to the coronavirus pandemic.
Speaking to The Standard Sports from his base in Kampala, Uganda, Okall said he is confident of helping the Ugandan side win trophies.
This is despite a losing debut for the Morans forward whose side went down 56-68 to second placed JKL Dolphins. 
“I had a quiet night but I was trying to fit it getting my chemistry with the team. I was just looking to get to my spots and find my rhythm,” said Okall.
Okall scored five points and six rebounds in 24 minutes played with Feisal Aden finishing as Titans leading scorer with 11 points and four rebounds.
“The Ugandan fans welcomed me very well. You can see even on social media the KIU fans have showed me a lot of love. There is no better way of repaying that than helping the team win games and trophies,” said the former US Setif player.
 Okall noted that the NBL is tough and more physical. He said majority of the teams have very good players with lucrative contracts, a step the Kenyan league needs to make in the near future.
“There are sponsors, contracts etc. Nevertheless, I believe we are slowly growing and Kenya will get there soon,” he said.
Titans are currently eighth in the NBL standings with three points after the defeat but with two games in hand. Heavyweights City Oilers lead the standings with eight points.
High school students benefit from Urbanville Basketball camp in Kisumu
Students from top basketball performing schools who dominate the Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association (KSSSA) games in the country benefited from a 30-day camp dabbed Urbanville Basketball Camp.
The 2021 edition took off last month in April and attracted over 50 players drawn from the crème de la crème of basketball schools including former KSSSA National basketball champions Agoro Sare High School.
The 30-day program conducted at Manyatta Arabs Primary School through a partnership with KBF Premier League side, Lakeside Basketball Club, trained kids on basketball basics and fundamentals.
Speaking to The Standard Sports, Urbanville camp director Oliver Nyawanda said they are aiming at becoming the most elite youth basketball program in Western Kenya.
“We have ambitious plans to run a full sports academy to offer a chance for young boys and girls to grow, develop and nurture respective sports talents.”
“The programme’s main goal is to help develop young boys and girls in acquiring basketball skills and knowledge but also basic life skills and mentorship,” said Nyawanda.
“More than 15 members of Urbanville basketball have received scholarships to schools and universities in Kenya, East Africa and beyond through the program. We are aiming at increasing the number in the coming years.”
Angela Akinyi, Jason McOnyango and Vady Omondi during the Urbanville Basteball Camp in Kisumu.
The young players who participated were between 10 to 20 years from Tigoi Girls, Ng’iya Girls, Obunga Girls basketball, Usenge High School and Kisumu Boys High School.
Others included Maseno School, Agoro Sare, Yala High, Rapogi High, Chulaimbo High, Hilcrest Academy, Chesamisi Boys, Kisumu Day, Muslim Secondary, Kanuainga High, Loreto High, Maseno University and JKUAT University.
‘Core values of the Urbanville basketball programs are based on God, Family, Education, Friendship and finally basketball. We insist on hard work, discipline and determination," added Nyawanda.
Milton Amadi from Usenge High School said he gained a lot of skills from the camp especially during the coronavirus pandemic period that disrupted learning.
“This was a great opportunity for me as a student and athlete to go out of my comfort zone. The lessons and training we got will not only improve my stats as a young upcoming basketballer but also better my point of view when we return to class,” Amadi said.
Best performers received shoes, cash awards, basketballs, assorted merchanise with some of the notable players included Moses Odhiambo, Marvin Oduor, Fadelis Opiyo, Samwel Otieno, Eudry Pinto ,Beckham Jack, Nigel Omondi, Philip Omondi and Maria Oloo.
Previously in 2019, Urbanville in partnership with Big dream Vision helped two players earn a full scholarship to go to school and play basketball in the United States.
Urbanville basketball is also planning a program running for all ages for both boys and girls that begins May 16 with short camps in August and December.
The next annual camp will be held between March and May 2022 and is expected to be able to accommodate 50 elite players at a 60-day residential camp.
Basketball: US-based Koranga to lead Kenya ahead of Afrobasket Qualifiers
US-based forward Felmas Koranga of NCAA side Troy University has been named in a strong Kenya national women's basketball team made up of 24-players ahead of the Afro basket qualifiers to be staged in Cairo in June.
Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) named the squad with the main objective of starting early preparations for the qualifiers which will feature Rwanda, Uganda, Burundi,Tanzania, Somalia and hosts Egypt in the Zone V qualifiers.
Fresh from being named the Sun Belt Newcomer of the Year in the US, Koranga will lead a foreign legion comprising of Victoria Wanjara, Brenda Wasuda and Clara Rotich, all who are based in the United States.
Mercy Wanyama (Spain), Georgia Adhiambo (Rwanda), Rose Ouma (Dubai) and Purity Auma (Bangladesh) complete the list of foreign based stars.
KPA captain Vilma Achieng will lead the locally assembled stars including sharp shooter Becky Muthoni, Melissa Akinyi, Selina Okumu, Taudencia Katumbi and Rita Okoth among others.
Youngsters Medina Okot from Coast’s Kaya Tiwi Secondary School and Ashley Minayo of Riara University also made the cut in the team consisting of a blend of youth and experience.
Speaking after releasing the squad, KBF Secretary-General Ambrose Kisoi also announced that former assistant coach George Mayienga will be taking charge as the new national women's basketball team head coach.
Mayienga who is currently in Uganda with the JKL Dolphines men and women's teams, will be assisted by KPA's Mike Opel, Eagle Wings coach Eunice Ouma and Strathmore University's Tony Ochieng.
 “We want to start early preparations to ensure Kenya regains their top spot in the region after finishing second behind Uganda during the last qualifiers held in Kampala two years ago,”said Kisoi.
Kenya Morans coach Lizz Mills has also been drafted into the technical bench alongside Sylvia Kamau of Equity Bank.
Kisoi said the federation has blended the team with both the young and experienced players to ensure continuity, adding that the team is expected to start training on April 30.
National women’s Basketball team-Felmas Koranga (USA), Mercy Wanyama (Spain), Victoria Wanjara (USA), Clara Rotich (USA), Purity Auma (Bagladesh), Brenda Adhiambo (USA), Rose Ouma (UAE), Mary Lisa (KPA), Natalie Akinyi (KPA), Melisa Akinyi (Equity), Velma Achieng (KPA), Selina Okumu (KPA),Georgia Adhiambo ( Rwanda),Christine Akinyi (Zetech), Jemmimah Knight (Storms), MaryAnne Nyagaki (Equity), Liz Okumu (UON), Medina Okot (KAYA Tiwi), Ritah Oluoch (Equity), Becky Muthoni (KPA), Taudencia Katumbi (KPA) and Ashley Minayo (Riara) Head Coach-George Mayienga,
Why Morans new star Bungei choose basketball over athletics
Preston Kiprono Bungei is a true Moran.
The American-Kenyan basketball star debuted for Kenya at the Afrobasket Qualifiers played in Cameroon earlier this year in February.
Bungei was among the 12 players that helped Kenya Morans, the national men’s basketball team, qualify for the 2021 Afrobasket tournament for the first time in 28 years.
Currently playing for Randers Cimbria Basketball in BasketLigaen, the top league in Denmark, Bungei’s is eyeing to win the Danish Cup after helping his team reach the semifinals playoffs of the cup championship where they will face Horsens on Thursday.
The Standard Sports caught up with the Bungei from his base in Denmark through a phone interview where the basketballer whose roots run deep into the Kalenjin athletic regime narrated his story as follows in a question and answer session.
When and where were you born?
I was born and raised in Albuquerque, New Mexico. I’ve lived there my whole life until I left for university.
I’m the only child from my mother and father’s marriage.
 I have two sisters from my mom’s second marriage
Their names are Grace and Carly. Grace is 16 and Carly is 14.
Did your parents play any sport? If yes, which ones and to what level did they reach
Both my parents ran cross-country and track. 
They both attended Lubbock Christian University in Texas on running scholarships, which is where they met. My father was a 4-time individual national champion, and in turn, lead his team to 4 national championships as well. 
My father turned professional after graduating from LCU and had a career spanning 10 years from 1995-2005.
He most notably finished in 2nd place in his first-ever marathon at the LA Marathon in 1999 finishing in a time of 2:10:43.
Kenya Morans Forward Preston Bungei (left) in action against Senegal during the Afrobasket Qualifiers.
Which sport did you play growing up?
I ran cross-country (but not track, I quit running track after 8th grade) up until 11th grade. 
I also played basketball all 4 years and stopped running cross-country after 11th grade to focus on basketball for my last year of high school
When did you start playing Basketball?
I began playing basketball when I was 5 years old.
Why did you choose Basketball despite other sports? What made you decide to play Basketball?
My mother started me in basketball when I was 5 because most of my family on my mom’s side were basketball players.
My grandfather, Phillip Harmon, played for Kansas University in the 1960’s. My aunt and uncle also played basketball growing up and in high school.
When I was about 2 or 3 my mom got me a plastic hoop for Christmas and she said I would just stand there and shoot on it all day long. 
So she signed me up as soon as I was old enough to start playing in the local youth team.
After high school, how did you progress with Basketball?
After high school, I attended Trinidad State Junior College, in Trinidad Colorado from 2013-2015.
Junior Colleges, are two-year schools so while there I was on a basketball scholarship and earned my associates degree. 
After that, I earned a scholarship to Norfolk State University (NCAA Division 1) in Norfolk Virginia. 
I played my first season there 2015-2016, but in the fall of my senior season (2016-2017) I injured my elbow which required surgery and I had to miss the whole season. I came back and played my redshirt senior season in 2017-2018.
During your early stages of playing Basketball, who mentored and trained you?
Kenya Morans Forward Preston Bungei (left) in action for Randers Cimbria against Bakken Bears in the Denmark League.
Growing up, I learned the fundamentals from the various teams that I played on.
The coaches would teach you the basics of passing, dribbling, shooting, etc.
 I would also go outside and shoot on my hoop in the drive way and practice different moves that I would see NBA players doing when I would watch the games.
I learned more technical skills in high school.
 My coaches did a good job of teaching the principles of having proper foot work, using both hands, dribbling with your eyes up, reading screens, etc. 
My mentor and the person I looked up to is Jorel Johnson. 
He and his family are close friends as we attend the same church. 
Our families have known each other since before I was born. 
Jorel is 4 years older than me and I’ve always looked up to him as an older brother. 
He was a very good basketball player himself, so he would always help me practice and teach me things about how to be a successful player. 
I without a doubt wouldn’t be where I am today if it wasn’t for him.
Kindly list some of your personal achievements
What is the most memorable moment in your playing career?
Honestly, representing Kenya and upsetting Angola has been the most memorable moment in my career to date.
To be able to be a part of history and help guide the country back to Afrobasket for the first time in nearly 30 years, there’s nothing else in a career that can top that feeling currently.
What are some of your experiences playing basketball? Lessons learnt?
There are many parallels in basketball, or any sport, and life. 
Sports are a powerful tool which can help to teach valuable life lessons in a way that most other things can’t.
 For me personally, I’ve learned from basketball about determination, sacrifice, and battling through adversity.
 I was ranked as the 17th best player in my senior class in the state of New Mexico, which isn’t known for producing high level basketball talent. 
Hardly anyone thought that I was good enough to play in college, and I used that to motivate me to work that much harder and prove them wrong. 
I only had one scholarship offer after I finished high school which is how I ended up at Trinidad State Junior College (TSJC).
 After my two years at TSJC, I only had one scholarship offer which was to Norfolk State University (NSU). 
I was always determined to do what it took to play NCAA Division 1 basketball and God blessed me with that opportunity. 
I also learned that you have to be willing to sacrifice certain things to achieve your dreams. For me, I had to sacrifice time spent hanging out with my friends. 
While they were out partying and having fun, I was at the gym working on my craft and getting better. 
I had to really narrow down my circle of friends and prioritize my time with the ones who had the same mindset as me. 
As far as adversity goes, I had to have a major operation that required 7 months of physical therapy. 
Initially, I was having to go 2 times a day 5 days a week so that I could regain the range of motion in my elbow, otherwise, it would’ve been permanently locked up and not straight. 
Mentally, going through the recovery process is very hard. 
I couldn’t use my dominant arm for everyday tasks and I didn’t know how my shot would be once I finished the rehab process. 
It’s also difficult sitting on the sidelines the whole season and watching your team take the floor every night without you. 
I had to fight through the physical and mental pain of that injury and rehab process to get back to being the player that I knew I could be.
These are all lessons and experiences that you aren’t able to get from a lot of other sources. 
My main goals for the next five years are to begin playing the Australian NBL (top league in Australia), purchase a house, and start a family with my wife.
This year my main focus is on Afrobasket and doing everything I can to help us have a good showing and surprise a lot of people with our performance there.
I also am focused on our World Cup Qualifiers and helping Kenya qualify for its first ever World Cup.
As I stated early my main plan is to play in the Australian NBL and have success there. 
Playing in the NBL will allow me to be with my wife for the majority of the year, rather than being separated for 8-9 months while I’m in Europe playing. 
Off the court, I enjoy travelling and exploring new places. 
I’m pretty simple though and just like to relax and hang out with friends and family when I do have time off.
I currently play in Basket Ligaen, which is the top league in Denmark.
The league is split into two categories, Pro A (which mine and Tylor’s team compete in) and Pro B. The league consists of 10 teams of which the top 8 qualify for playoffs. 
My team doesn't compete in any international competitions and only plays games against the teams in Basket Ligaen. 
Since I grew up in the States, I didn’t know of any Kenyan basketball players. 
My favourite player growing up and of all time was Kobe Bryant, so he is the one that I looked up to.
Jordan to be Bryant's presenter at Hall of Fame enshrinement
Former NBA star Kobe Bryant, CEO of Kobe Inc, speaks at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California, U.S., May 3, 2016
Michael Jordan will be Kobe Bryant's presenter when the Los Angeles Lakers great is inducted posthumously into the Basketball Hall of Fame next month.
Bryant, a five-time NBA champion with the Lakers, died last year aged 41 in a helicopter crash alongside his daughter and seven others, shocking the world of sport and sending fans into mourning.
He will be inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame class of 2020 alongside the likes of Tim Duncan and Kevin Garnett on May 15.
Members of the Class of 2020 were asked to select previous inductees to present them to their peers during the ceremony.
Lakers guard Bryant, who idolised Jordan growing up, will be presented by the six-time champion, who made an emotional speech at his memorial.
Jordan, who led the Chicago Bulls' dynasty in the 1990s and currently owns the Charlotte Hornets, will also present Baylor women's basketball coach Kim Mulkey for her enshrinement.
Former Houston Rockets coach Rudy Tomjanovich and 10-time WNBA All-Star Tamika Catchings are among the other members of the highly anticipated Class of 2020.
Bryant, an 18-time NBA All-Star, retired from the league in 2016 after one of the most decorated careers in basketball history, and is the NBA's fourth all-time leading scorer.
Bungei not ready to drop the ball playing for Kenya Morans
Currently staring for Randers Cimbria in Denmark, Bungei wants to help Kenya qualify for World Cup after the Afrobasket.
There may never be another basketball player as supreme as Michael Jordan.
The argument of who truly deserves the title of ‘Greatest Basketball Player’ is a complicated one, not immune from the interesting nuances of subjectivity.
There will always be those who favour the explosive brilliance of Jordan or the electrifying, self-destructive ingenuity of Kobe Bryant; not to mention the more recent claims staked by the entrancing contemporary works of modern great LeBron James.
Preston Kiprop Bungei may not fall amongst the category of the three great basketball players, but he is a rare kind of an athlete.
Few get the chance to reach a continental final stage in their respective sports in a lifetime, let alone do what he has achieved in his six years as college and professional basketball player.
“I’ve learned so much to do with determination, sacrifice, and battling through adversity,” Bungei told the Standard Sports during an interview from his base in Denmark.
“Very few people thought that I was good enough to play in college, and I used that to motivate me to work harder and prove them wrong.”
Making his debut this year in the national basketball men’s team, Kenya Morans, Bungei said playing for the national team has been his biggest achievement in basketball.
“Kenya is a part of my heritage. It’s my father’s country, where he was born and raised. All of my father’s family members still live in Kapsabet.”
“Kenyans work harder and more determined than any other group of people that I’ve met in basketball especially with the limited facilities. The country is beautiful. Even though I grew up in the US, Kenya feels like my second home,” said Bungei.
Earlier in February, Bungei was among the 12 players who helped Kenya qualify for the 2021 Afrobasket tournament for the first time in 28 years.
His journey to playing for the national team began on a rather bumpy ride after FIBA prevented him from playing because he did not have a permanent Kenyan passport.
Watching the competition from the sidelines, Bungei’s absence from the court was felt as Morans got narrow success in the first round after beating Mozambique 79-62 in their final match after previously losing to Senegal and Angola in Group B.
“I was disappointed after all the preparations and time and then learning you’re not able to play, it hurt,” said Bungei.
But in February, he was handed the opportunity to don the Kenyan colours and despite losing 69-51 to Senegal, Bungei finished the match as Kenya’s best player with 11 points.
He followed his impressive debut performance with another 10 points in Kenya’s historic 74-73 win over Angola, a victory that saw them qualify for the Afrobasket set to be held in Rwanda this year.
“I just can’t describe the feeling. Tylor hitting the game winning shot and us qualifying, is a memory that I’ll carry with me forever,” said Bungei.
“I give credit to this group of players who started this journey to or three years ago, when nobody knew or cared about who the Morans were. And yes, I plan to continue playing for the Morans moving forward for as long as they’ll have me and want me on board.”
The forward player, who currently plays for Randers Cimbria in Denmark, dreams of honouring his father who died in 2011 by helping Kenya win a continental championship.
Bungei, who carries athletic genes from his late father James Bungei, was born and raised in Albuquerque, New Mexico in 1995.
Just like his father, Preston grew up running cross country and track and field. However, all that stopped as he chose to focus more on basketball.
“My mother introduced me to basketball when I was five years old because most of my her relatives were basketball players. When I was about three years, she got me a plastic hoop for Christmas and said I would just stand there and shoot on it all day long,” said Bungei.
Despite falling short of a state championship while he was in high school and college, Bungei started making strides after going professional in 2018.
After a successful stint with Trinidad State Junior College and Norfolk State University which featured in the NCAA Division 1, Bungei joined Jazine Arbanasi in Croatian Prva Liga.
In Croatia, Bungei recorded impressive stats as he averaged 17 points per game.
He was named in the All-Croatian Prva Liga Honorable Mention and won the League Player of the Week four times for the 2018-2019 season.
Why sports ban won’t slow down Kisumu Lakeside’s hunger for success
Kisumu Lakeside Basketball Club is optimistic of performing well in the 2021 Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) Men’s Premier League despite the ongoing coronavirus pandemic which is continuing to disrupt sporting activities across the country.
Last month, the KBF topflight league was suspended temporarily by the Government due to rising cases of COVID-19 in the country, hitting a huge blow to the Kisumu side which had just started building their momentum.
Prior to the halting of the league, Lakeside had played five games losing four against EMYBA, Thunder, Eldonets and KPA.
Their only win came against Ulinzi Warriors, with the Kisumu team shocking the defending champions 61-59, a win Lakeside Secretary General Bria Lusaga believes would have set the momentum heading towards facing other opponents.
Speaking to The Standard Sports, Lusaga, who also doubles as the assistant coach, said they were disappointed by the ‘no sports’ Government order but remain buoyant of achieving success this calendar year.
“The team had picked momentum and was ready to take on the next opponents. Some players had already made job schedules that would allow them honour matches and with the ban, it means their plans have been interfered with and that may affect us when sports resume.”
“The management had also paid for training facility for the year, that would go to waste too. However, we are choosing to remain positive and hopeful for a better year and not a sports-less season that was 2020,” said Lusaga.
Lakeside head coach Dismas Oketch echoed his assistants’ sentiments by saying other teams are lucky because of the temporary suspension of the league otherwise they would have faced a totally different Lakeside team compared to the side that lost four straight games.
“Winning against the defending champs to break our losing streak was big, it's an eye opener that any team is beatable in the league. This would of cause psyched the team heading to our next matches but unfortunately, the league was suspended.”
Being at 1-4, we are maintaining our focus by doing what's been working and improving on our weaknesses. We had used the previous four losses in understanding where our systems were faulty, analysing and rectifying on our mistakes during current practice,” said Oketch, commonly referred to as ‘DC’.
“For the previous seasons it's been a mental kind of thing that winning on the road is something else, but I believe the current team is set to make that perception a thing of the past.”
Lusaga said Oketch, who joined the club during their maiden season win against Ulinzi will be a key figure in turning out Lakeside into a serious basketball force.
“Oketch was an instant hit. He is a long-serving lakeside player who understands the structures of the team. After retiring the management helped facilitate for his coaching course. DC is firm and reads the game well.  He is the next big thing in the coaching world,” said Lusaga.
Lakeside signed Ocholla Bryan from KPA, Marko Odhiambo from KU Pirates, Joshua Carter from Barcelona, George Collins, Jayden Simiyu and Allan Kibira seeking to better their last season’s quarterfinals playoffs achievements.
“Joshua Carter is a talented guard standing at 6.2', he is still adjusting to the physicality of the league, he is picking up well and his commitment to training is impressive. He will surely bring us the wins we want,” said Lusaga on their international player who used to play in Spain.
Lusaga added that they have come up with a training program, where the team does morning run to keep fit, individual workouts and online discussions during this temporary suspension of sports.
Kenya Morans star Ongwae voted Danish Cup Defensive Player of the Year
Kenya Morans star Taylor Ongwae is the Danish Defensive Player of the Year.
Ongwae was awarded after an impressive show where he helped his club Bakken Bears win the Danish Cup.
Ongwae scored seven points and had 10 rebounds with an assist to inspire Bakken Bears to the Danish Men’s Cup by beating Horsens 80-82 in the final.
In his third season with the Danish giants, Ongwae has been instrumental for the champions on the defensive end.
Ongwae has won this cup coming off a great performance for the Kenya Morans at the Afrobasket qualifiers played in Cameroon earlier this year in February.
This is after his buzzer-beating jump shot over Angola earned Kenya a historic slot in the 2021 Afrobasket Championship to be held in Rwanda where Kenya has not been participating for the past 27-years.
Last month, Ongwae was voted the Sports Journalists Association of Kenya (SJAK) for the month of January and February. He beat reigning Safari Rally and Kenya champion Baldev Chager to the February award.
He was also named in the FIBA Africa Top 10 list of players after leading Morans with team-highs of 14.8 points and 4.2 assists and was the team's second leading-rebounder with 7.2 boards in five games. 
Ongwae joined the Bakken Bears in 2018 from Swiss outfit SAM Basket having also played for Taranaki Mountainairs in New Zealand and Italy for Felice Scandone and in Sweden where he turned out for Södertälje Kings.
Ongwae will today(Tuesday) be heading into the Danish League playoffs where Bakken Bears will face Elite Basketball Akademi Aarhus (EBAA) in the quarterfinals.
Basketball: Lakeside shock defending champions Ulinzi in Kisumu
Kisumu Lakeside registered their first win of the season after a shocking 61-59 win over defending champions Ulinzi Warriors in an entertaining Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) Premier League match played at Manyatta Arabs Primary School in Kisumu on Saturday.
Lakeside captain Silas Guya scored a season-high 16 points as the hosts broke a four-game losing streak with their star player Trevor Gari watching from the bench with a groin injury.
Point guard Sila Awuor followed with another season-high 16 points and nine assists as forward Marco Odhiambo registered a double-double of 10 points and 10 rebounds.
Ulinzi with Kenya national team players Victor Bosire, Eric Mutoro and James Mwangi could not match the lakeside team as they registered their first defeat of the season.
Point guard Victor Bosire led for the Warriors with 19 points followed by William Ochieng with 18 points as Erick Mutoro and James Mwangi registered eight points each.
The host dominated the first two quarters, leading 20-17 and 15-12 respectively before Ulinzi came back into the game with an impressive 20-13 score in the third quarter.
The Kisumu based team however left it late by edging out the champions 13-10 to narrowly win the match by a bucket in the final quarter.
Lakeside started the game on a high note with Awuor hitting two consecutive dagger threes to finish the first quarter with 11 points followed by Justus Okitoyi and Kennedy Okumu with seven and two points respectively to lead the quarter 20-17.
Forward Odhiambo came in hard in the second quarter dropping eight points as Ulinzi struggled to convert from the three-point line which allowed Lakeside to take a six-point lead at the break with the scores at 35-29.
The defending champions however responded with four consecutive threes shared equally by Mutoro and Bosire in the third quarter and Ochieng adding five more as Ulinzi took the lead for the first time in the match leading 49-48 by the end of the quarter.
In the final quarter, captain Guya took matters into his own hands to seal the win with nine points as Odhiambo added four points to narrowly win 61-59 after Mutoro missed a late layup to send the game to overtime.
Speaking after the win, Lakeside coach Brian Lusaga congratulated his players for not giving up in the last quarter, saying they are just getting started.
“We believed in ourselves from the start and that was clear after coming out on top in the first, second and final quarters. This is a good win against a talented Ulinzi side and this result will really boost us going forward,” Lusaga told the Standard Sports.
Coming into the game, Ulinzi had beaten Blades, Eldonets, KCA-University and Umoja while Lakeside had lost their first four matches against EMYBA, Thunder, Eldonets and KPA.
Lakeside seek redemption as they tackle Ulinzi Warriors
Kisumu Lakeside will be seeking redemption when they host defending champions, Ulinzi Warriors in a Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) Premier League match to be played at Manyatta Arabs Primary School in Kisumu.
Lakeside have lost all four matches against EMYBA, Thunder, Eldonets and KPA but head coach Brian Lusaga is optimistic they can grind their first win against Ulinzi Warriors.
Speaking to The Standard Sport, Lusaga said the new signings in the team are yet to stabilise, but was impressed by their performances in their last two games.
“The team is hungry for wins, we have worked on our offence which had so many turnovers. It’s a long season though and we expect to turn things around.
“We do respect every opponent, and in as much as they are the defending champions we all on the same league and we believe in ourselves,” said Lusaga.
Isaiah Kiyaka of Lakeside (left) in action against KPA's Job Byron. 
However, Lakeside have been dealt a huge blow after losing top scorer Trevor Gari to injury. 
NBA-Players protest racial injustice as league returns to action
NBA teams bowed their heads and knelt during the playing of the U.S. national anthem while wearing Black Lives Matter T-shirts on Thursday as the league returned for the first time since the coronavirus halted play in March with two thrilling games.
Coaches and game officials joined players from the Utah Jazz, New Orleans Pelicans and Los Angeles Lakers and Clippers in taking a knee to protest against racial injustice and police brutality in the first games in 140 days.
Black Lives Matter was also written on the courts at the ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex in the Walt Disney World Resort near Orlando, where the NBA plans to finish its season with 22 teams inside a bio-secure bubble.
"The game of basketball has always been bigger than just the ball, the rim, 10 guys on the floor and referees," the Lakers LeBron James said after hitting the game-winning shot in his team's 103-101 win over the Clippers.
"It's an opportunity to use this platform to spread a lot of positivity and love throughout the whole world."
He said that while there has been progress in the fight against systemic racism, the key was to maintain the momentum.
"We want to keep our foot on the gas," he said. "We're dealing with a lot of racism, a lot of social injustice and a lot of police brutality, not only in my neighborhood and not only with Black people, but with all people of color."
Some players had messages like "Equality," "Education Reform" and "Say Their Names" on the backs of their jerseys in place of their names.
Athletes from around the world have united behind anti-racism protests sparked by the death of George Floyd, a Black man in police custody in Minneapolis in May.
In the first game, the Jazz came from behind to defeat the Pelicans 106-104 after the Pelicans' Brandon Ingram's three-pointer at the buzzer rimmed out.
The games are being played without fans, but "virtual fans" appeared on LED screens wrapped around the court and a simulation of a crowd's cheers and jeers could be heard.
How NBA restart today will work
The NBA relaunches its 2019-2020 season today with 22 teams based inside a secure “bubble” at Disney World in Florida due to complete the remainder of the campaign. 
Here AFP looks at some of the key questions and issues surrounding the unprecedented restart:
From the moment the NBA season was halted in March after the pandemic brought the United States to a standstill, the NBA began looking at the question of how or if the season could be restarted safely.
The logistical challenges of restarting the season in its existing format, with large travelling groups of players and support staff jetting in and out of multiple cities at a time was deemed a non-starter in the era of Covid-19.
Instead the NBA began exploring the feasibility of basing all teams at a single location, creating a giant quarantined safe zone or “bubble” and completing the season there.
Las Vegas and Orlando quickly emerged as the front-runners, with the NBA eventually opting for the ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex at Walt Disney World in Orlando, Florida as the best venue.
Twenty-two teams are now based in the campus, with players requiring to test negative for Covid-19 twice after arrival before being allowed to enter.
Team and NBA personnel are staying in three hotels dotted throughout the complex, with a small number of media, sponsors and inactive players. 
Games will take place without fans at three different venues on the complex.
In the early weeks of the restart, no guests will be allowed although those rules will be relaxed once the playoffs start.
After the first round of the playoffs, players will be allowed to reserve one hotel room each for guests, who will be required to self-quarantine for seven days. Any guests entering the bubble must also test negative twice for Covid-19 in the 72 hours before entering. 
Any guests testing positive will not be allowed to enter.
Those guests who are admitted will be required to undergo daily testing.
Players are allowed to leave the bubble in exceptional circumstances but face a mandatory four days in quarantine before being readmitted. Players must also undergo daily testing when they leave the site.
The regulations have already tripped up two NBA players -- the Los Angeles Clippers’ Lou Williams was ordered to serve a 10-day quarantine after visiting an Atlanta strip club during a family emergency leave.
Williams was photographed at an Atlanta strip club which he said he visited to get some take out food.
Richuan Holmes of the Sacramento Kings was also hit with a 10-day quarantine order after leaving the campus to pick up a delivery of chicken wings.
LeBron James joked that leaving his home to enter the bubble was like “heading to do a bid” -- a slang term for starting a prison sentence.
But since arriving in Orlando, most players have adjusted to life in their tightly controlled environment.
Many have installed creature comforts from home including giant televisions and video game consoles.
A Twitter account -- @nbabubblelife -- which documents the daily activities of NBA players based in Orlando has quickly amassed a large following, depicting players doing everything from getting haircuts to playing golf or fishing.
Despite being inside the bubble, players are still required to follow conventions such as social distancing and wearing face coverings.
Players are also barred from entering each other’s rooms.
Twenty-two teams will complete the season -- 13 from the Western Conference and nine from the Eastern Conference.
Invited teams include the 16 franchises who were in the playoff positions when the league halted play in March, plus six teams that were six games or fewer behind the eighth seed in each conference.
Teams will start off with seeding games to determine the final playoff line-up, with the playoffs starting on August 17, when each round will be best of seven.
Meanwhile, the Utah Jazz and New Orleans Pelicans reportedly are working together on a plan to kneel during the national anthem and show support for the Black Lives Matter movement before they square off.
ESPN’s Malika Andrews cited sources Tuesday night saying that the Jazz and Pelicans players are adamant about presenting a united front tonight.
Kenyan film 'Softie' picked for Peabody awards
Kenyan film ‘Softie’ has been nominated for the 2021 Peabody Awards in another cheer for the 2020 hit documentary. 
The Peabody Awards Board of Jurors based at the Grady College of Journalism and Mass Communication at the University of Georgia announced its 60 nominees representing “the most compelling and empowering stories released in broadcasting and streaming media” in 2020.
From more than 1,300 submissions for the prestigious award, only 60 stories were selected and ‘Softie’ made the cut.
When the news of the nomination broke, ‘Softie’ director Sam Soko was ecstatic, writing on Facebook: “I am so proud of our fantastic Softie the film team... Mad love to the crew, incredible supporters, and Boniface and Njeri Mwangi (the subjects of the film). Thank you! Congratulations to the other amazing nominees.”
The Peabody Awards honour excellence in storytelling that reflects the social issues and the emerging voices. 
“It is really exciting to be nominated because it means this is an African story that has reached a global audience. A good story has no colour or race. We are honoured to be among other honourable nominees and we hope to win,” said Boniface Mwangi.
Speaking to The Standard last year as the film won accolade after accolade, Soko said the hit documentary started as a simple idea.
“When we stared it was not meant to be a documentary. We were just filming the process of the protests he was leading in 2013. It was sort of supposed to be a how-to-guide. Like an activism manual. Something short that could go on Youtube and that would be it,” he said.
But as time went on we realised it was very interesting to see what happens behind the scenes when Boni does something.
 Yes, he is an activist, but he is also a father and a husband and there are demands made of him for those roles.
 We never actually get to see the consequences. 
The Peabody Board of Jurors announced this year’s crop of nominees on May 4, listing ‘Softie’ alongside ‘Athlete A’ and ‘Disclosure’ among 16 others in the documentaries segment.
When he and his family get death threats, that this is what it actually means.
HBO’s 'I May Destroy You', Amazon Studios’ 'Small Axe', and Showtime’s 'The Good Lord Bird' also received recognition from Peabody, as did CBS’ 'The Late Show with Stephen Colbert'.
Peabody Awards winners will be announced in June and the organisation plans to honor this year’s nominees, as it did last year, via a virtual event.
Chakacha got resurgent interest from dancer Princess Farida via her pelvic pirouette in transparent waist wrap around, paving way for solo artiste, Nyota Ndogo (Mwanaisha Abdallah), who infused pop to create an urban Taarab and Chakacha beat in the 2000s.
That notwithstanding, Chakacha has rarely been copied by musicians beyond the coast, like say benga which was adapted by musicians from Western, Eastern and Central Kenya.
Even Them Mushrooms and Nyota Ndogo moving and pitching tent in Nairobi did not give Chakacha an urban appeal.
But why did this genre, which borrows from Swahili, Arab and Persian belly-dancing influences, remain rooted at the coast?
Never mind that the most popular Kenyan songs are from the coast: Malaika, the global evergreen was by Grant Charo and Fadhili Williams.
Jambo Bwana, Kenya’s signature tourist song has been recorded by Them Mushrooms and Safari Sounds-whose Best of African Songs album was the first to go Platinum and remains one of the greatest-selling.
 Among the first Kenyan musicians to climb the Billboard charts in Europe was Mombasa’s Kelly Brown (Mohammed Abdulkadir Ali Bux) with his 1980 hit, Higher
With such rich legacy, why did Chakacha not spread to other parts of Kenya? There are many reasons, including culture, religion, perceptions, colonialism and changing musical tastes.
Culturally, Chakacha was specific to women and dancing was a central element. “Men (were) not allowed to dance Chakacha and a man was considered gay when found dancing Chakacha,” says Dr Donald Otoyo, director, Permanent Presidential Music Commission.
Again, Chakacha required a live band whose members had dexterity with coastal instruments most of them percussive like the chapuo, the msondo drums, the marimba and wind ones like the siwa trumpet.
Matters were made worse by their near zero mastery of coastal music song craft of messages couched in proverbs and belted out in lilting Kiswahili accent.
In, Sura Yako, all-boy band Sauti Sol borrowed Chakacha beats but that’s as far as its influence went.
Chakacha is also hardly played even when national days are held in Mombasa. 
Dr Otoyo explains that “as a commission, we promote Chakacha in the right settings. We use music for the right space, on a national day there are some music we can’t play, not because we do not support them but because it doesn’t suit the occasion. Music has to go with the occasion.”
Philip Tuju, the founder of Red Fourth Chorus says Chakacha failed to take root beyond Mombasa because musicians who made it popular deviated to other genres: Safari Sounds still does the beach hotel music circuit but mostly plays popular cover versions and not Chakacha inspired songs like Pole Pole and Lala Salama that made them popular in the 1970s.
Mombasa Roots, which gave us Mama Sofia, all but fizzled out leaving Them Mushrooms whose last shot at recording was its Zilizopendwa compilation - more suited to easy listening than dancing.
Then there are historical reasons. Prof Larry Gumbe, an engineer and lay music historian argues in Shades of Benga Online that British constructing the Uganda Railway from 1895 entrenched colonialism which opened up Kenya’s hinterland to urbanity and with it, the spread of music.
Secular artist Nyota Ndogo perform on stage during Kenyan Love story festival at KICC court yard on 10th February 2018
Missionaries not only taught music but also consumed it but it was mostly European music, and even when they invited bands, they played the British Foxtrot. 
Society was also segregated and Africans were left out.
That the British hired Indians and not the coastal people as railway builders did not help in spreading Chakacha.  
In Shades of Benga Online, Bettina Ng’weno, an Associate Professor of African-American studies at the University of California, Davis, says Kenya’s State of Emergency in 1950s Nairobi also influenced the spread of music. 
Movement of people was restricted. These restrictions enabled the dominant sound to emerge, not from Mombasa, but towns surrounding Nairobi like Murang’a and Ukambani.
The British controlled recording studios and were more charitable to politically friendly communities like the Luo who worked at railways, explains Prof Gumbe adding that this allowed musicians from Luo Nyanza to thrive with their versions of rhumba.
This eclipsed other regions and genres which was not helped by the fact that “Kenyans were also picking World Music from Afro Cuban, Caribbean, South Africa’s Kwela and Congolese influences,” says Prof Ng’weno.
Ngala Chome, a writer and historian, says colonialism was largely spread through Christianity which overshadowed Islam and the dominant music was thus European. 
Chome argues that Christianity became the cultural frame for those who could not enter the “Arab-Swahili-Indian Ocean imagination” and this also influenced their musical choices, besides perceptions of the Swahili as more Arab than African.
Music also spread to the masses via radio but VoK (now KBC) English Service playing mostly European music and the programming did not help matters: Breakfast Club, Lunchtime Music, Beat Time, Sundowner and Late Date according to Elizabeth Omollo, the first homespun woman broadcaster in December 1970.
In Shades of Benga Online, Omollo says “we were not allowed to play African music,” as listeners were largely mzungus. “We played jazz, classical, country, ballet, opera and instrumental music.”
Something else: Chakacha, for its sensual dance moves, was banned from the Kenya Music Festivals in the 1990s. 
Yet, Chakacha is not Chakacha without the suggestive belly dancing and gyration of hips.
Tuju reckons that besides the absence of heavy hitter coastal bands, banning Chakacha from the Kenya Music Festivals did not help matters.
 Dr Isaiah Oyugi, chair, department of music and dance at Kenyatta University terms Chakacha as a style of music and dance performed as a ritual exclusive to coastal girls who were ripe for marriage.
Being banned from the Kenya Music Festival, he argues, was to restrict it to a community which understood it as others would have misinterpreted its essence.
Students are also not the ideal audience as Chakacha was for girls ripe for spousal picking and in music festivals.
“The guidelines of music calls for them to perform a cultural song in its authentic way, which in the case of Chakacha is not something we want to communicate to the public,” says Dr Oyugi adding that “Chakacha was like a rite of passage, practised by the Amu of Lamu in seclusion.   
Dr Otoyo also explains that Chakacha had religious connotations as Muslims separated genders such that men and women hardly gathered in the same place. 
It was thus wrong to play it in clubs as “a song and a dance meant for one person was now being practised in front of over 100 men, and for the purpose of looking more sexual, women adopted a very transparent outfit for this dance, which initially was something more like a leso. 
The exaggeration made it unfit for the public and even the music festivals,” where a Class Two pupil would also be watching a performer with a kibwebwe tied to the waist, gyrating suggestively.
Barissa Dhidha, senior music instructor department of music at Kenyatta University adds: “Chakacha is banned in music festivals because it is inappropriate for an elderly examiner to watch a sensual dance by students, it does not bring out the moral value.”
Dhidha reckons banning Chakacha from the Music Festivals was not what prevented it from spreading beyond the Coast, rather, musicians “looked at other genres and moved from Chakacha, others might have just gone separate ways because the band leader formed his own group.” 
Street art: Loud message by unseen faces
Graffiti with encouraging words against Coronavirus pandemic at a wall along Coast General Hospital in Mombasa County.
Street art and graffiti have been used as channels of communicating important socio-political messages.
One good example is when Boniface Mwangi, the photographer and activist, and his peers from Pawa254 took to the streets using graffiti as a tool of public protests.
They drew controversial murals that portrayed the nation’s political elite as vultures preying on its citizens in a movement called ‘maVultures.’
This art has given birth to Nairobi’s new kings of graffiti and street art such as Bankslave, Daddo, Swift9, Smoki, Uhuru, Mr Detail, Chela, and Serm1 among others who have become a household name in the industry. Bankslave, was once referred to as “the founding father of Kenyan graffiti” by CNN. 
Nowadays, it is not uncommon to find murals addressing all manner of topics on Nairobi streets. One of the popular groups that have cemented its authority in this sector is Spray Uzi crew.
A graffiti of police beating an innocent Kenyan on the walls of Kamukunji grounds in Nairobi on June 08, 2020.
“We met at WAPI (an underground hip-hop platform and movement) in 2006 as individual artists. We later collaborated on a couple of projects painting in different neighbourhoods and eventually formed a crew to work on bigger projects,” says Swift9, a member.
However, by the very nature of what they do, a lot of these artists have to remain anonymous. 
Graffiti is after all rooted in breaking rules. 
Its close sibling street art is, however, at most times commissioned or painted with permission.
 Street art is also sometimes used to include graffiti.
“Using official government names kills the mystery behind the art and so does it do in exposing us to unlikely enemies, something we are weary of,” says Swift9, who declines to give his official name.
“Using pseudo names sometimes give artists the freedom of being cheeky and mischievous without their identity being in the public,” adds Daddo, a 23-year-old Nairobi-based graffiti artist and muralist.
Most of the murals in Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu use a mixture of imagery and text. They address societal ills such as tribalism, greed, corruption and bad governance.
“I have always loved painting and through art, I have always expressed my feelings and the truth about my environment.
“I use art to convey messages about our society. This is what I do to educate and reflect on both the good and bad. To me, graffiti is a way of life,” Daddo says.
He says graffiti allows him to express his creative side. “To me graffiti is a medium which I use to advocate social change, protest and expression of a certain community desire. So you can imagine how impactful it is out here.”
Graffiti art in Nairobi town done by well re-knowned artists including bank slave. 
Some organisations working in informal settlements have been using street artists as advocates for change.
Joel Bergner, popularly known as Joel Artista is a muralist and an educator who creates large-scale works of art with the participation of young people and communities around the world.
He is the co-founder and co-director of Artolution which organises community-based public art initiatives.
 In 2013, they organised and led the ‘Kibera Walls for Peace Initiative’ in collaboration with the Kibera Hamlets youth organisation.
“The Kibera Walls for Peace youth public art project aimed to encourage unity and cooperation between ethnic and political groups ahead of 2013 elections.
Kibera was strongly affected by the violence and political turmoil that engulfed Kenya after the previous election, so preventing a repeat of the crisis was their main objective,” writes Joel Artista on his website, www.joelartista.com.
The project involved peace-building workshops with local children and teenagers and the creation of a series of street paintings that promoted peace.
The initiative included a collaboration with local graffiti artists for the “Peace Train,” in which the artists and the youth painted a 10-car passenger train with art aimed at easing ethnic tensions.
However, this venture is not a walk in the park.
Graffiti is somewhat viewed as vandalism therefore most artistes do this in secret.
Working in small but well-knit groups, they meet with their sponsors and come up with topics.
Despite all the challenges, street art is becoming popular, creating a reprieve for young artists who feel at ease working in bigger groups where more funding and protection is assured. 
Expensive art
“Graffiti is very expensive. Unless we are working with a big organisation, most of the murals we create are funded through sale of merchandise such as T-shirts and canvas art. They advance the art and are also a source of revenue for the artists.
“Sometimes, we secure funding in form of grants from donors and other non-governmental organisations,” says Swift9.
Spray cans cost between Sh300 and Sh800per piece.
“These murals bring people together; raise awareness and give people time to reflect on what the art is communicating.
This isn’t always achieved verbally, especially by people from different demographics but the murals communicate to everyone regardless of their backgrounds,” he says.
When subscription video on demand (SVOD) started there was resistance towards it, not any more.
Now, with working from home becoming the norm, more business and other key operations going remote, video on demand has taken off, especially for local TV shows and films. 
Could the future of films and movies move online entirely?
Big production houses still have some reservations, preferring the old tried and tested ways.
One of the most anticipated movies of 2020, then 2021: No Time to Die, a James Bond’s film series, has delayed their release due to the potential losses they could make if they decide to exclusively premier it on streaming video on demand as opposed to cinema releases.
However, locally, film makers and show runners are increasingly preferring to have their films on streaming platforms. 
Employing a localisation strategy, Showmax now shows a host of different genres of Kenyan TV shows for all ages. 
A few of the most loved shows by its users are; Sol Family, Selina and Njoro wa Uba among others.
The past year, despite challenges caused by Covid-19 across the world, has not been all gloom for Kenyan filmmakers. 
Over the past year, there has been a clear appetite for fresh African content to star on global streaming platforms like Netflix. 
The Kenyan originals; Poacher, Sincerely Daisy, Disconnect and 40 Sticks all premiered on the platform.
And this seems like something that will be happening more and more.
Realness Institute and Netflix now have a new partnership on episodic content development set to spur more African originals like Queen Sono and Blood & water. 
The lab is open to writers in Kenya, South Africa and Nigeria with Film and TV experience in any genre (fictional or factual) or language.
“At Netflix, we believe that great stories come from anywhere and can be loved everywhere. We strongly believe that Africa has a wealth of untold stories,” says Kenya’s Dorothy Ghettuba, Netflix’s lead for African Original Series.
Kenyan writer, director and show-runner Jennifer Gatero streamed her series This is Life exclusively on its website, a distribution method she was experimenting with.
“I chose independent streaming because I had the chance to distribute the work myself and independently reach the audience without the help of a network. I learnt a lot including that it is possible but it is much harder,” she says.
Award-winning actress Brenda Wairimu, who has been in a number of top Kenyan productions, urges viewers to offer support for the creatives and Kenyan films. 
“Embrace our own. Watch Kenyan content. I’m not saying blindly accept mediocre, but give our art the benefit of the doubt,” she says.
Cameroon makes its debut on global streaming platform Netflix
Cameroon has made its debut on the global streaming platform Netflix. 
The debut saw two movies filmed and produced in the central African country. 
The two Cameroonian movies, Therapy and Fisherman's Diary, are now streaming on the American over-the-top content platform and production company headquartered in Los Gatos, California.
According to local reports, Ermelinde Simo Sakah Jing produced the movie Therapy, going down in history books as the first Cameroonian film to be aired on Netflix.
The film stars Nigeria's Richard Mofe-Damijo, Ireti Doyle alongside Jing, Alenne Menget, Lucie Memba, Neba Godwill, child actor Kayla Merits.
The Forkwa Babila scripted film follows the story of a dysfunctional couple who enlists an unconventional therapist's services in a bid to resolve their marital woes.
The Cameroonian debut is co-directed by Anurin Nwunembom and Musing Derick, while Anthill studio's Victoria Akujobi is credited as the film's editor.
The Fisherman's Diary by Kang Quintus and Enah Johnscott, which has been one of Cameroon's best movies of 2020, was early this year pre-selected for the 93rd Oscars. Unfortunately, the film did not make the final cut. 
Speaking about the Oscars pre-selection, the Executive Producer of the Film, Kang Quintus, excitedly explained that the opportunity to make it to the Oscars was enough recognition to put the Cameroonian film industry on the global map.  
"We are happy to have made history with this film. For us, aside from being a good reward for hard work, this deal grants the opportunity for our content to reach a global audience. Hopefully, this would be the first amongst many, not just for me and the team, but for other Cameroonian filmmakers," Kang Quintus said in a press release.
The movie, The Fisherman's Diary, follows the story of a 12-year-old Ekah (Faith Fidel) who got inspired by Malala Yousalzai, the youngest noble prize winner. In the film, Ekah is determined to go to school in a fishermen's village where it is considered taboo. The film features other actors such as Ramsey Nouah, Onyama Laura.
Commenting about this latest achievement for the Cameroonian movie, the film's Executive Producer, Kang Quintus, could not hold back the excitement.
"After making it to the Oscars list, The Fisherman's Diary has now become the 1st Cameroonian Film to be acquired by Netflix. This is big news for the Cameroon Film Industry and a proud moment for all Cameroonians… Many more Cameroon Films to follow," Kang Quintus wrote.
Cameroonians have taken to social media platforms to congratulate the movie producers and for the outstanding achievement.
How the wine tasting event went down at The Local Grill
Africa head of Astrazeneca Dr.Sylvia Vito(Left) and Carole Kinoti (Right) during Durbaville hill collector reservoir wine from Cape town during Wine tasting at Village market in Nairobi.
Did you ever imagine that the world’s most expensive beef, Wagyu, is available locally?
Well, The Local Grill in Village Market and KWAL and Durbanville Hill Collectors Reserves recently treated wine enthusiasts to an evening filled with food and wine, introducing us to some of the most premium wines and of course, good food.
For only Sh6,000 per person, one had the rare chance of enjoying a variety of wines from the South African wine company that crafts wine using the best grapes from Cape Town’s best vineyards, with the evening’s host being wine expert and sommelier Victoria-Mulu Munyoki.
In an evening filled with laughter, we got to talk about life, love and eat the best food available, including chicken mshikaki.
Learning how to tell the flavours of wine just from tasting it and being able to tell which grape was used in making the wine is also key.
Identifying how sweet, dry or acidic wine is also helps in choosing the best bottle of wine.
For the starter, we had grilled Octopus in tropical slaw and Mediterranean relish with a Durbanville Hill Collectors Reserve – ‘The Cableway’ chardonnay 2018, and chicken mishkaki in sugarcane speared chicken thighs with spicy peanut sauce with a glass of Durbanville Hill Collectors Reserve.
For the main course we had Wagyu x Boran short ribs that was slow braised with a red wine infused with a glass of Nederburg ‘The Manor House’ Shiraz 2017.
And I have to say my highlight for the night was a passion and lime sorbet, which was a palate cleanser as we geared up for the second course.
The second main course meal was grass fed fillet 200 grammes with local salad and mixed salts, accompanied with a glass of Durbanville Hills Collectors Reserve ‘The Promade Pinotage’ 2017.
To close the pairing, we dug into a raspberry panna cotta dessert with a glass of Durbanville Hills Collectors Reserve ‘The Lighthouse’ Merlot 2017.
Kisumu's 63-year-old Ofafa estate set for Sh3 billion facelift
The 63-year-old Anderson Ofafa Estate in Kisumu will undergo a Sh3 billion facelift thanks to the County Pension Fund and Laptrust Fund.
The county authorities have embarked on a two-year low-cost housing project to give the estate a new look befitting Kisumu city status.
 On Wednesday, Governor Anyang' Nyong'o laid the foundation stone for the houses of retirees from the defunct Kisumu Municipality.
Some tenants have lived in the houses for more than 20 years and were paying as low as Sh4,000 for a one-bedroom or two-bedroom house.
 But now, the houses, which they have lived in for years, are set for an upgrade with a vision to make them homeowners in the noble low-cost affordable housing project mooted by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kenya’s Affordable Housing Programme (AHP) was launched in December 2017 by President Kenyatta as one of the national government’s four pillars of growth.
The Kisumu Housing Project comes at a time when the city's bulging population is continuing to pile pressure on housing demand amid an acute shortage of low-cost houses.
Currently, demand for housing, according to the County Lands and Housing Executive Dickson Obungu is 250,000 annually against a supply of 50,000 as the city grows.
Currently, the proportion of the urban population in Kisumu has risen from 482,327 in 1979 to 664,086 in 1989 to 804,289 in 2009 968,909 persons with 474,687 males and 494,222 females.
The county's population stands at 1,155,574 as per last year's census.
Acting city manager Abala Wanga envisages Kisumu population will double in next 20 years.
Nyong'o said the growing population has necessitated fresh spatial planning. "So we have to look at the distribution of people and activities in urban areas and towns to improve their housing, economic and social environments," Prof Nyong'o said.
Laptrust CEO Hosea Kili released a cheque of Sh76,000 each and an additional Sh100,000 to facilitate the relocation of the affected 1,200 families.
The Andersen Ofafa Estate was home to 246 families staying in 39 blocks.
Each family was paid a year's rent based on a mutual agreement with CPF and LapTrust. 
 The former tenants will be given priority on buying the new modern housing units.
 According to the project's architect Peter Wasilwa, each of the one-bedroom houses will be offered to the former tenants at an affordable cost of Sh1.5 million.
The tenants will have 10 years to offset Sh1.5 million for the one-bedroom houses, paying Sh12,500 monthly.
 The two-bedroom houses will go for Sh2.5 million, while a three-bedroom house cost Sh3.5 million. Non-tenants will part with Sh1 million more for the units.
Kisumu is the third-largest city in Kenya after Nairobi and Mombasa and is in Lake Victoria Basin Commission headquarters for East African countries.
Why today’s Kalasha gala is an awards show like no other
It is all systems go for this year’s Kalasha International Film and TV awards that will be held in Nairobi today. 
Timothy Owase, the Kenya Film Commission CEO promises a major show in the annual event that seeks to celebrate the crème de la crème of the local movie industry. 
Some of the films that are favourites include Sincerely Daisy, Family Meeting, Midlife Crisis, 40 Sticks and Uradi.
While Sincerely Daisy has 13 nominations, Family Meeting, 40 Sticks and Midlife Crisis have 12 each while Uradi has nine. 
Now, in its 10th year, the event will also serve as a platform for showcasing some of the best TV shows and children’s productions.
The event will be attended by Joe Mucheru, the Ministry of Information, Communications and Technology Cabinet Secretary.
“From our research, there has been a growing need for content for children on our screens and as a result, the commission introduced the Best Children Production category to acknowledge those who have developed concepts to accommodate our young ones as screen audiences,” Owase said.
Maisha Magic’s Pete, Majuto, Kovi and Selina series have been nominated in  Best TV Drama category while their lead actors/actresses have also been nominated for their roles. 
The awards ceremony at Sarit Centre will feature a few guests in line with Ministry of Health guidelines on social distancing.
KFC has partnered with StarTimes, which is the official platform where nominated films had been uploaded for voting and viewing.
The films and actors in Sincerely Daisy, Family Meeting, Midlife Crisis, 40 Sticks have all landed in notable slots namely Best Original Screenplay, Best Sound Design, Best Director, Best Lead Actress and Best Lead Actor.
The awards are being held at a time when the local film industry is showing signs of growth and recovery.
This year, a number of local films and TV drama shows have found their way to Netflix with KFC making deliberate efforts to promote film production. 
The awards gala is being held at a time when focus is on the Kenya Film Bill 2020 that seeks to consolidate the legislative framework of laws relating to the film industry and to provide for the development, funding and regulation of the industry.
 “For long, artistes have been complaining about being underpaid, poor working conditions and policies. In response, we are coming up with new guidelines to achieve the full potential, development and growth of the local talent,” Owase said.  He added that, through its parent Ministry of ICT, Innovation and Youth Affairs, KFC is championing a National Screen policy that will streamline funding, incentives, investment and capacity development.
He noted that a film-friendly production environment will involve a shared, positive view of the industry across a range of different government departments, agencies and other entities. 
The Labour Statistics for Film and Related activities data from the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics 2020 economic surveys indicated that about 123,290 jobs existed directly in the film industry in 2018 with a 5.3 per cent increase recorded last year.
According to the PWC analysis of trends shaping the entertainment and media industry in Africa – released last year – the total cinema revenue in Kenya is set to reach US$8.6 million (about Sh860 million) by 2023, up from US$6.2 million (about Sh620 million) in 2018, as production activity peaks for both feature films and TV drama.
While Nigeria remains Africa’s film giant, Kenya has been tipped to join the continent’s major film countries in which is South Africa and Ghana.
Jamhuri Day fever- Must attend weekend events
It is the festive season and a number of feelgood events are on cue this weekend to help you make the most of the coming holiday celebrations.
Read Also: Inside a Covid gig - How corporates are adjusting to new trends
Alternate Sound, a fused four-man band boasting unique musical expressions, will be bringing African magic at the Just a Vibe event in Ngong Racecourse, Nairobi.
Beloved Kenyan boy band Sauti Sol will be host to Sol Saturday - a limited tickets event -  at the Karen Waterfront which will feature must listen to special guests. Former Camp Mulla artist Miss Karun will at the Rebel Room for throbbing Afro Soul vibes alongside fast-rising songstress Xenia Manasseh and Nigerian singer Tems.
Golden Ice Bistro will be having a special Jamhuri Eve hosted by Jay Ranking with DJ Kronixx behind the decks. Rapper Kahush, the son of Health CS Mutahi Kagwe, will be performing live at Clique Lounge in a must-attend event dubbed ‘Wanted in Nairobi’ which will also double as his album launch and listening party.
254 Brewery will host some of the finest people in the contemporary music space such as Big Bear, Mix Master Lenny and Marcelo Cura for Kenyan Nights’ 11th edition in another limited capacity event.
The events industry has borne the brunt of the implications of Covid-19 to a very large extent this year.
Typically one of the most lucrative industries when all factors are constant, this year has seen the demise of many money-making channels for many a stakeholder for months on end now. 
As we edge closer to the end of this rather turbulent year, it also looks like organizers are buoyed to slowly bring back the events lifeline slowly by slowly.
 Except it is also not as easy as it sounds.
A few weeks ago, the annually controversial NaiFest went down and so much flack has been meted out against them after. 
Questions have been asked as regards whether it is the right time to bring back showbiz or humanity should be prioritized over profits. 
Are there many event organizers willing to care less for the money and more for the lives of the human race? 
That is the million-dollar question amid the current events temperature.
Last weekend saw the last-minute cancellation of the much-awaited Mugithi in the Wild, a move that many arguably did not see coming.
 “It is with sincere regret that I formally inform you that, after due consideration of our current circumstances, KWS management has come to the decision to stop the planned Mugithi in the Wild event. We apologize for the inconvenience caused,’’ read a part of the statement put out by Lekishon Kenana, an official at Kenya Wildlife Service South Conservation Area division. 
The much-hyped event was slated for November 21 and had big headliners like Samidoh, Jose Gatutura and Kareh B, with ticket prices going for as high as Ksh10,000.
“It was devastating, to say the very least. A culmination of so many days of intense work with preparation went to the drains. It was not easy. Somewhat miraculously, people were very understanding and did not give us hell. So many people agreed that it was not our fault and had our backs. That was a really good feeling,’’ adds Shem, one of the key organizers of Mugithi in the Wild.
‘’The email from Kenya Wildlife Service was sent at 12am. Typically, no one really logs in to email at that hour. So, we only got to see the email at 8am in the morning. The shock that hit us is inexplicable. We had spent the previous night on final touches of the set, so the last-minute directive hit us rather hard. Nonetheless, we choose to focus on the bright side of things. We are already planning on a possible rescheduling and gearing up for another event, Reggae in the Wild, already. We are not slowing down anytime soon, ‘’ affirms Shem, who also doubles as a renowned corporate DJ.
What about the safety and wellness of Kenyans?
‘’We had planned on handing out face masks and hand sanitizer to every single reveller who was coming to the event. We also had a great sitting arrangement that entailed haystacks, strategically placed within intervals of 1.5 metres, as per the health ministry’s social distancing directive. When it comes to security, the location is synonymous with that. It was beefed up to the core. We were not about to make the same mistakes as others, ‘’ he boldly confirms.
Going by Shem’s statement, Mugithi in the Wild was bound to be a huge success. 
He insists that the rescheduled event will be even bigger and better, and with all Covid19 rules adhered to.
Enter Thrift Social, which earlier in the month was postponed - the much-awaited gig headlined by award-winning South African singer and songwriter, Samthing Soweto will be going down this Sunday. 
This will be the first-ever post-Covid-19 edition, and suffice to say that many eyes are on them. 
Critics are all up in arms in case the event fails to live up to the required health restrictions. 
Being their first-ever post-virus to gig, what are they going to do differently? 
‘’I do not want to dwell on that, seeing as my words could easily be twisted. I want to be very careful. As a matter of fact, I’d rather remain tight-lipped on any banter pertaining to Covid-19 restrictions and the event,’’ said a somewhat discreet Oliver, one of the key organizers of Thrift Social. 
As to how the event will pan out on Sunday, we will have to wait and see. 
Meanwhile, questions abound on what the legal atmosphere hitherto looks like. What will befall those find themselves on the short end of the stick?
The Public Health Rules 2020 impose a penalty of either a fine of up to KSh20,000, imprisonment for a period of up to six months, or both, for contravening the measures set out in public places: places to wash hands, social distancing and enforcement of wearing of masks and regular sanitization of the premises. 
This is stipulated under Rule 6. As for revellers who contract the disease because they visited a public place or attended an event, this would be a caveat emptor situation.
The consumer is responsible for their actions and they cannot transfer this liability to the owner of the establishment.
‘’ Looking at the mysterious nature of the disease, that may be hard to prove as its still a medical discover the Public Health Rules 2020 impose a penalty of either a fine of up to KSh20,000, imprisonment for a period of up to six months, or both, for contravening the measures set out in public places: places to wash hands, social distancing and enforcement of wearing of masks and regular sanitization of the premises. This is stipulated under Rule 6, ‘’ informs Liz Lenjo, founder and Managing Consultant of MYIP Legal Studio. She specialises in Intellectual Property, Entertainment, Media and Fashion Law.
‘’Since March, the situation has changed. With the Government imposed restrictions the playing field can be anticipated. Now, events are being held under these guidelines. Some event managers and establishments are following these rules while some are flaunting them. The enforcement of these rules is rather wanting as there are instances it may be construed to be selective. That said, there is a rise in exclusive events and people seem ready and willing to pay premium. Perhaps owing to the eagerness to escape the boredom of staying at home, ‘’ she concludes.
Recently, rapper and events guru Muthoni the Drummer Queen caused a storm on social media after she blasted errant event organizers whose sole intention has been making many with negligent regard to people’s wellbeing.
Her words were echoed by fellow showbiz bigwig Reign Mwendwa who said that putting events on hold right now is the most prudent thing to do. 
With the festivities edging closer by the day, one cannot help but wonder what we’ll wake to come the New Year.
However, it is more than evident for all and sundry that the dilemma to bring back events or have humanity on the top of organizers’ priority lists is a struggle that cannot be understated.
 Does the end justify the means?
How club owners are maximizing on profits despite pandemic
There were mixed reactions after a video released by musician Muthoni the Drummer blasting her fellow event organisers in the entertainment industry who ignored the soaring numbers of the Covid-19 cases and went ahead to host gigs. 
“It is extremely reckless. I’m ashamed of you. You know yourselves,” she ranted.
Muthoni’s concerns seemed to have fallen on deaf ears with showbiz activities, which had been crippled for the better part of this year, going on uninterrupted in various entertainment spots throughout the country with little concern if any.
 The sad part is Kenyans will have to shoulder their own expenses.
Vineyard - The recently refurbished entertainment spot on Kiambu recently launched its Reggae Meets Live Music Night, which will feature a deejay with lapses involving various bands performing in between the intervals.
The host, Deejay Double Trouble was hosting Graviti Band, Band Linda and was assisted on the decks by Steve Junior, Deejay Prince while MC Philipo put his hype skills to work.
With revellers catching up after the disappointing Harambee Stars versus Comoros game, word soon went round that a police lorry had been spotted sending everyone into a panic.
Kitengela - It’s the new entertainment hub in Athi River with numerous clubs, piled on the same stretch try their best to outshine each other.
Such was the case last Sunday afternoon, with the two households clubs Pavillion and Halcyon playing a you can’t beat me game.
 Revellers came from as far as Nairobi just to have some fun.
Pavilion - It was a mega party showdown featuring some of the biggest names in the game. 
Hosted by SpinCycle entertainment deejay Mr T alongside MC Jose ushered Mejja whose hits are currently topping the charts with spinmaster Joe Mfalme on the ones and twos. 
Just from the parking lot, it was evident that the event was sold out.
 According to MC Jose, body temperature test were conducted and “despite the huge turnout, we occasionally reminded revellers about the need to observing the health regulations like social distancing,” he said.
Just a few metres, Kriss Darlin’s unit Dohty Family, was entertaining yet another full house during their weekly Reggae Sundays.
 “This is the third consecutive month and we are still strictly adhering to health precautions. 
We encourage our clients to start with the afternoon brunch and are shut by 8pm,” said the club’s entertainment manager.
The Outdoor - In an outdoor event at the Carnivore themed park and chill where revellers got entertained in the comfort of their cars. 
The Outdoor, which has constantly gained popularity was a success with various revellers seemingly because of the minimal contact as most prefer to sit in their cars.
The massive club along Mombasa road, The Tunnel, wasn’t left behind either and after hosting DJ Malaika, Saturday night was the ultimate battle of the siblings as DJ Nick Dee took on his younger brother DJ Moh in the Takeover themed night.
Sincerely Daisy, 40 Sticks lead in 2020 Kalasha Awards nominations
Only a month after it premiered on Netflix, Sincerely Daisy has emerged as the movie to beat during this year’s Kalasha International Film and TV Awards whose nominees have been unveiled.
With 13 nominations in the 16 main Film categories, the film, an urban story about family, young love, timeless friendships and the reality of tough economic times leads in a list dominated by the biggest Kenyan films released in the recent past.
The top four will battle it out in the ceremony’s traditional prestigious slots; Best Original Screenplay, Best Sound Design, Best Director, Best Editor, Best Lead Actress in a Film, Best Lead Actor in a Film and Best Production Design. 
Other nominees have everything to celebrate for having made it to the lean list from a whopping 1,036 entries submitted this year.
 Coming on the heels of Sincerely Daisy is Family Meeting, Midlife Crisis and 40 Sticks all with 12 nominations each, while Uradi has nine.
It is a re-match of some of the biggest names that have dominated the winners' scorecard in the past such as Sarah Hassan and Nick Mutuma, newcomers have made a statement with a significant number of nominations.
While Sincerely Daisy’s new acts got them recognised, 40 Sticks has an assortment of fresh talents in film production such as Enos Olik and Lucas Bikedo, both famous for music production.
The Kalasha Commission also introduced the Best Children category to fill in the gap of the growing need for children content.
“From our Audience Development Strategy research, there has been a growing need for children content on our screens and as a result, the Commission introduced the Best Children Production category to acknowledge the producers who have developed concepts to accommodate our children as screen audiences,” said the Kenya Film Commission CEO, Timothy Owase.
“At the beginning of this year, it seemed as though Covid-19 would halt production and affect content creation altogether. However, our TV shows are on the rise and Kenyan films are being premiered on global platforms,” Owase remarked as he stressed the resilience of Kenyan filmmakers who have continued to make huge strides in these trying times.
“This year, the stories are more authentic and relatable and filmmakers are pushing the boundaries of creativity”, stated James Kanja, the Kalasha nine-member jury chairperson.
Maisha Magic’s Pete, Majuto, Kovu and Selina dominated the Best TV Drama, Best Lead Actress in a TV Drama and Best Lead Actor in a TV Drama. 
Popular TV drama show Maria got three nominations.
Pulse Music Video Awards 2020 submission deadline extended
As the momentum builds towards the region’s most prestigious music awards, the Pulse Music Video Awards (PMVAs), artistes have been given more time to submit their entries in the various competing categories. 
Due to public demand, the entry submission deadline slated for this week has been moved to November 24, even as the submissions hit a record 1,000 yesterday.
This year’s gala will enjoy an expanded approach that will factor in fresh categories.
Moving from the 11 competitive categories featured in the last five years, the December glitz affair will see four more awards dished out including Best Hip-hop Video of the Year and Virtual Concert of the Year.
The other categories include Video Vixen of the Year, Male Video of the Year, Female Video of the Year, New Artist of the Year, Best Gospel Video of the Year, Best Collaboration of the Year, Best Choreography of the Year, Best Breakthrough Video of the Year and Best Group Video of the Year. 
There will also be an award for the Best Producer of the Year, Viewers’ Choice Video of the Year, Best Virtual Concert of the Year, Best Virtual Deejay Mix of the Year, Best Music Video Dance Challenge of the Year and Best Virtual Band of the Year.
Stamping authority on the finest acts in Kenya’s showbiz scene, the annual event brings the entertainment industry players together in a live TV ceremony where winners are honoured. Last year’s big winners included Khalighraph Jones (Male Video of the Year for Leave Me Alone), Nadia Mukami (Female Video of the Year for Radio Love), Nviiri The Storyteller (New Artiste of The Year for Pombe Sigara) and Sailors who took home the New Wave Video, Best Group and Viewer’s Choice of The Year.
How things fell apart for three Kenyan concerts this past weekend
Ahealthy amount of financial mismanagement, poor security, artists mishandled, underage attendance - this concoction is what besieged Nai Fest this past weekend. 
A number of artists who were scheduled to perform did not take to stage, including Reekado Banks, who was set to headline the event.
And while socialite and event organiser, Bridget Achieng came out to blame the Government and curfew regulations, narrating in a post “The Government stopped the music, the main artiste (Reekado) could not perform, but revellers were happy.
 It was past curfew the rules have to be followed,” Reekado’s team told another tale.
“The contract agreement was that Reekado was to be paid the remaining balance of his performance fee once he arrived in the country. The organiser was supposed to pay the remaining amount Sh540,000 on Saturday morning before Reekado would take to the stage later in the day,” a  member of Reekado Banks’ management team, who sought anonymity, revealed.
Reports that an attendee died following injuries from Nai Fest during the weekend after a confrontation in unclear circumstances, is the boiling point of poor security measures to control an event.
 A patient is said to have been brought in at Melchizedek Hospital along Ngong Road by a group of boys who later fled. 
With 3,800 tickets sold according to a Nai Fest management crew, the later reported number of 7,000 plus turn-out was remarkable, but over half the ticket sale ratio made into the venue.
Multiple cases of day-light theft, rape, and underage being allowed into the party have overshadowed the event’s turn-out success.
“Even though I’m proud that the gig could do such numbers, it’s fair to say that it was poorly handled, and there was a lack of professionalism.” Caesar Obare, a member of the organising committee said to Pulse.
Forget professionalism, basic decorum, respect and diligence was so costly.
 Too many cases of battery, assault and attempted robbery took the shine of stellar performances.
 More incidents took the air out of the room but party-goers continued to enjoy themselves amidst the chaos. 
“I got robbed at NaiFest” quickly became a trend after influencer Shaq The Yungin opened the can of worms that then spewed on to many others sharing their experiences at the day time brunch gig.
“You should be walking with a gang”, “You should buy a Glock”, “Sorry Shaq, Nairobi is crazy”, were the sentiments as friends and fans consoled with the embarrassed personality.
“We were literally entering a den of thieves. After the first Nai Fest, we thought they would have addressed the issues of the first edition, but we were wrong. At a point, it felt like we were fighting for our lives. 
We went to a certain terrace that could oversee the event and you could just see the number of people who weren’t there to enjoy themselves, an anonymous attendee told Pulse.
In a graphic video uploaded to Instagram, radio presenter Shaquille Oduk was bruised and battered explaining his ordeal of being ambushed as he was leaving the event.
 He lost his iPhone during the incident.
The lack of readily-available transport was a major issue leaving the crowd stranded and vulnerable. It was a thief’s heaven and that’s exactly what it turned out to be.
“There was security hired, police did a sweep before the event, a partnership with Matter Hospital, but I think the organisation could do a better job at managing the events more thoroughly and ensure people’s safety,” Obare told Pulse.
Gengetone Festival in Machakos caused an outburst from the performers due to non-payments and multiple no-shows.
Complaints from artists made more headlines than the attempt at bringing together folks for a common good.
First, it was Ex-ray of Boondocks Gang who led the rant-fest that acts could barely even make it to the event with basic riders not offered for performers.
“Respect artists.” He said in a long video. 
The Gengetone act went on to apologize to fans that purchased tickets to watch them live, stating that he needed the cash to provide a livelihood for him and his family. 
Willis Raburu who was touted to be among organisers and made an appearance, and would later distance himself from the horror show.
 According to him, artists were cheated and outstanding balances are the reason as to why the event that stacked a line-up of Jua Cali, Mbogi Genje, VDJ Jones and many others to perform failed.
Furthermore, Kikwetu and Nai Fest have been poorly exposed for their ‘influencer-marketing strategy’ to sell tickets.
The idea that influencers are crowd pullers is a myth.
Kikwetu was fashioned to pull huge crowds, but it was false hype in reality despite artists’ dedication to put on a show. 
Out of the many cars in the Drive-Inn concert, a quarter were complimentary tickets and this was again the case intimated that over 500 influencers were hired to promote Nai Fest and a high number of attendants had tickets handed out to them by organisers and influencers.
Pseudo posters promoting artists that would not come such as Migos were also employed.
Tanasha Donna’s management tells Pulse she pulled out a day before the gig because, despite her performance fee of Sh350,000 being discounted by Sh100,000, the organisers could not afford to pay her to use her image to promote the event.
“Tanasha had fans from Kisumu, Nakuru, Coast and all over pull through just to see her and then the Nai Fest guys pull a shady move last minute saying they do not have even a deposit. She had agreed to perform with half the figure, and get paid later with a contractual agreement to seal the same, but it wasn’t to be after Bridget shortchanged this.” The La Vie singer’s management told Pulse.
Other artists that are said not to have performed including Sailors who quote a Sh350,000 tag to perform also backed out after being snubbed at the last minute. 
While artists such as Boutross, Khaligraph Jones, and Otile Brown said to have gigged were paid the full amount.
The same bouncers hired to maintain order and a free-flowing event then became violent as things flared up backstage.
It’s no secret that an event doesn’t always go flawlessly perfect, Nai Fest 2 was however further desolated when it was reported that a female in rapper Gwaash’s entourage was harassed and beaten by security despite having a pass.
Influencers associated with the event such as Fred Omondi responded harshly to backlash at the event’s incompetence with a now-deleted Instagram post.
 He reiterated that it was the best event and the fans got premium value paying Sh2,000 for local acts rather than headliner Reekado.
 After the atrocious mishap that was Gengetone Festival the weekend prior, this was a moment of redemption for the events sector in particular but it now hangs in the balance after things transpired the way they did.
 The event is planning a follow-up edition on a reported date of December 12th. 
Tanasha’s management, however, says they would not be interested in getting into business again.
On top of that health security is a major concern according to fans that have been privy to these events.
There is food, music, lights, everything, but masks and sanitization points.
 "Corona lives in these events, and it’s hard to imagine how they market it as no mask, no entry yet no one gives a hoot on the grounds,” said a reveller Simon at Kikwetu.
Additionally, propaganda that Mo Sound went ahead and cut off the sound at Kikwetu, and that guys never even wanted to travel out of town for an event at Gengetone Fest because of Curfew regulations are some of the drama in these shows.
Artists are short of stage-time in line with Covid-19 government protocol so the idea that you will get a fully-fledged show is something to consider when attending these concerts.
The manner in which Nai Fest brand will reconcile the damage and losses to the affected will be a light step towards how serious showbiz events in Kenya can be judged.
This weekend, Thrift Social featuring Ama Piano and Kwaito artist Samthing Soweto, will have to carry the events sector and prove Covid physical outdoor concerts can be pulled off Safe
Spectacular night show returns to illuminate sky above Fort Jesus
The Mombasa night sky above Fort Jesus Museum exploded in a blaze of colour on Wednesday following the reintroduction of a spectacular pyrotechnics event. 
A huge 270-kg firework display by Jay Pyrotechnics Ltd illuminated the dark skies and signaled the launch of the Fort Jesus Enchanting Sound and Light Multimedia Show.
Pyrotechnics MD Jayshree Suchack said the 40-minute shows, which includes 3D projection mapping and holograms that depict Mombasa's rich history, will be held on Thursdays, Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays.
Sports and Culture Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed led Mombasa residents and guests from the hospitality industry in unveiling the show.
 "We are delighted to be gathered at this historic fort to witness the launch of yet another milestone that serves not only to create awareness on culture and heritage, but also reposition Mombasa as a popular tourist destination," said Dr Amina.
Kenya Tourism Federation chairman Mohamed Hersi said: "We are happy that we have something positive in this crisis over and above beach and bush."
Coast Guard destroys Sh. 4 million illegal fishing gears in Kisumu
The Kenya Coast Guard Service (KCGS) on Friday destroyed illegal fishing gears worth Sh. 4 million in Kisumu.
The illegal fishing gears were detained through enforcement patrols within Lake Victoria to curb indiscriminate fishing which has seen fish production in the lake drop.
The 45 illegal nets ranging from monofilament, undersize gillnets, mosquito seine nets and beach were torched at Kisumu pier to deter fishermen from the vice.
KCGS Director General (DG) Brigadier Loonena Naisho who spearheaded the exercise said over 100 offenders have been arrested in Kisumu, Siaya and Homa Bay counties and will be arraigned in court and charged.
He said KCGS has enhanced patrols within the lake to enforce the law and ensure that prohibited fishing gears and methods are not exacerbated.
“Reports indicate that overfishing by organized crime syndicates in Lake Victoria could drive 76 percent of fish species to extinction,” he said.
The use of illegal fishing gears, he added was also to blame for cases of fishermen being harassed by neighboring security agencies.
The DG called for collaboration with Beach Management Units (BMU) and court officials to eradicate illegal fishing in the lake.
Loonena cautioned the BMU’s against destruction of boats and fishing gears of others without following due process of the law.
“We have noticed criminal activities where some beach management units take the law unto themselves by destroying boats and nets of others,” he said.
He challenged the BMU’s to sensitize fishermen on changing and adapting sustainable modes of fishing to rebuild fish stocks in the lake.
Raila in Kisumu ahead of Madaraka Day
ODM party leader Raila Odinga is in charm offensive in the lakeside city of Kisumu ahead of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s visit to celebrate Madaraka Day.
Raila asked the people of Kisumu to come out and welcome visitors.
He visited the newly refurbished Jaramogi Oginga Odinga sports complex before addressing residents at the bus terminus, Kondele before heading to Mamboleo, Jomo Kenyatta Sports Complex stadium the venue of the celebrations on 1st June 2021.
He took the opportunity to assure the residents that BBI is not dead and reggea will be on again.
He says the court process is temptations which they have sent a team of lawyers to argue to the end.
Raila says what Kenyans had been promised in the BBI will not go in vain as they prepare a titanic battle in the court of law.
MOTHERS, NEWS BORNS DETAINED OVER HOSPITAL BILLS
Over ten mothers and their newly born babies have been detained by St. Akidiva Hospital, in Suna West sub-county of Migori over failure to pay medical bills. 
The mothers include two whose newly born babies died in the facility said clarity on reference was not availed as they were referred from other facilities whose workers are on strike or overpopulated yet their Linda Mama and NHIF were rejected. 
George Odhiambo who lost his child in the facility and had earlier given time to bury him said that they arrived at the hospital a week ago and after successful delivery through C-section could not leave with his wife because of the unpaid bill. 
He said the hospital required between Ksh 10,000 to Ksh. 30,000 from them but not allowed to go and look for money adding that they are only allowed access to the toilet and to wash clothes. 
Bernard Odhiambo and Kevin Arwa said they’ve been forced to look for other sources of funds yet they were informed that NHIF and Linda Mama will cater to all bills. 
They claimed that their bills had accumulated yet they still have a balance.
According to the hospital’s director Dr. Idagiza Akidiva, they received a circular from NHIF offices not to discharge any patient urging the government to sort out technicalities so that they have smooth operation and patients are released.
Prepare for another political betrayal, Kuria West Mp Robi
As the window for political realignments narrows ahead of the 2022 general elections, bigger political parties are positioning themselves for the big seat, yet to be declared vacant after president Uhuru Kenyatta retires from politics.
The Jubilee Alliance affiliate party United Democratic Alliance (UDA) staunch supporters are however at cross roads, not knowing which side to throw their wait after their exit from the umbrella party.
UDA’s Mathias Robby of Kuria West has however cautioned ODM party of a looming political betrayal, which he claimed is in the offing.
Mathias said the opposition chief Raila Odinga should stay woke following his previous experience and make valid choices if he expects to win the presidential seat.
The legislator while speaking at a burial within his constituency said the recent court ruling that declared the Constitution Amendment Bill (2020) null and void should be awake up call to Raila.
As Minority groups, he added, their interests were not captured in the document despite Uhuru and Raila vouching for it.
Mathias added that Raila should forget about any political endorsement or support from Mount Kenya region but should instead work towards gaining support from minority communities.
Migori senator ,Ochilo Ayako while speaking at the same function, said that of importance to electorates at the moment is service delivery.
Ayacko took issue with the I’ll fated Migori Governor Okoth Obado , whom he accused of advancing his political agenda and abdicating his other responsibilities.
Sexual Gender Based Violence on the rise in Nyakach
Residents of Nyakach in Kisumu County are questioning the existence of a gang that has continued to rape and defile locals at will.
Horrific stories of the gang atrocities have been told over time and security authorities, according to victims have failed to act on information shared.
A non-state actor, Inuka Success Organization has been in the forefront to document cases of sexual gender based violence in the sub county.
The organization coordinator, Victon Onyango, says they are a member organization of the Sexual Gender Based Alliance Kisumu County tasked with the responsibility to coordinate assistance to the survivors.
Onyango explains that during the documentation of the SGB violence in the area, it has come to their attention that the stories of the perpetrators are almost similar, an indication that it is a roaming gang.
“It looks like a coordinated rape scenario, because we find similar cases happening same night, where people, two or three breaking into houses, they have same apparatus, torch knife,” he said.
A resident, Jared Ochieng, not his real name, due to the sensitivity of the case, narrates how the gang breaks into the house where his daughters were sleeping and in turn defiled them.
“My daughters woke me at 2 am to report that some people gained entry into their sleeping room and defiled them,” he said.
Ochieng says he sought medical attention for his three daughters before pursuing justice.
His case is among many in the area where rapes, defilements are order of the day and night with no action being taken.
Ochieng noted that her daughters had recognized the voice of one of the perpetrators and police were given the information but little has been done.
“We did report to the police about one of the suspects who is a local, however, we were told to inform the police whenever we spotted the suspect, that sounds crazy,” says Ochieng.
For the cases that find their way into the courts, they get frustrated as suspects walk scot free after placing bonds and fines.
Onyango says they have followed a number of cases, some stuck in courts, but their ultimate goal is to ensure justice is served.
“We just make sure that justice to the survivors is achieved, we also trace cases that have stalled and see why and the reasons behind the delay,” he said.
The organization has conducted a number of awareness creations among the public on the need to report cases of sexual gender based violence.
“Most of the cases that we have been able to get currently are as a result of the conversations we have had in the community,” he said.
The conversations have also targeted police officers and administrators in the community.
“Cases have been reported but surprisingly nobody follows these cases after they happened, they are reported and end that way,” said Onyango.
Kisumu Medical and Education Trust, (KMET) an indigenous Kisumu based non-governmental organization established to promote quality health and education services across the country has so far since March this year documented six cases of gender based violence within a village in Nyakach.
Patricia Orao, KMET advocate in policy lead gender justice project says that in collaboration with Equality Now, they are determined to see the six cases go through the judicial process.
“We are taking police officers through capacity building in investigations because what happens if the investigation is shoddy, such cases always collapse,” she says
Orao says the officers are being strengthened on documentations of evidence to be able to take to court water tight cases as a way of discouraging sexual gender based violence cases.
A local chief, Elizabeth Achieng representing Agoro location, the epicenter of sexual gender based violence, says from October last year, the area has recorded a number of cases on gang rapes and defilements.
Achieng says she had made emphasis during her routine public meetings that cases of defilement and rape should be reported immediately after seeking medical attention.
“I normally tell my people to report such cases to the authorities after the victims are taken to the hospitals for medication,” she says.
Locals in Nyabondo protest over poor health services.
Locals in Nyakach, Kisumu County, have staged a demonstration over poor health services at Nyabondo Mission Hospital.
Carrying placards and twigs, the locals stormed the mission hospital alleging that the management had run down the medical facility.
Levy Hawi, a local, says the management of the hospital has deteriorated over time and it is time to fix the mess.
He says some officers have been looting the hospital without any shame at the expense of the sufferings of patients.
Hawi says patients are going without proper food despite being billed and the conditions of the wards are wanting.
Speaking after failing to get an audience with the management at Nyabondo, Hawi says staff at the hospital are ready to work but the management is not ready to avail the required tools.
He noted that most of the medical facilities are being bought from outside the hospital at the cost of the patients.
Hawi says more often patients have failed to get treated due to lack of essential medical facilities.
The locals are calling for an overhaul of the management and a proper vetting of new management with capabilities to run the facility.
None of the management team was at the hospital when the locals stormed in to register their displeasure.
Nyabondo Medical Training College Principal Juma who was also mentioned as those behind the failing of health standards in the facility dismissed the allegations.
Juma says clan politics is at play and they will continue to discharge their duties as required despite the noise.  
Kolwa Central ward in partnership with a Non Governmental Organization has launched a program targeting youth for enrolment at a vocational training.
The area MCA George Olwal says the program will benefit young people who are out of school.
Olwal says the program will be run by Akado Youth Polytechnic and will target youths between the ages of 18 to 35.
He says more emphasis will be given to girls noting that those who will be selected will be given a monthly stipend.
Speaking to the press in his ward, Olwal called upon the youth who have completed class eight or form four to step out and apply for the short courses.
James Misanze, the facilitator of the organization, community progress youth empowerment institute says they are given hope to young people.
Misenze says some youth dropped out of school may be due to school fees and the program is coming to support them.
He says the three courses they are offering will give the young people an opportunity to look for jobs elsewhere or start off their businesses.
Kenya reports progress in saving the northern white rhino with four new embryos produced
Kenya announced Thursday that four new northern white rhino embryos had been produced as efforts to rescue the iconic giant land mammal from extinction gathered momentum.
Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) and a consortium of international scientists said the embryos were produced in March from 19 immature eggs (oocytes) that were harvested from one of the only two surviving female northern white rhino called Fatu.
“We are excited with the laboratory outcome of the last ovum pick-up in March,” said Najib Balala, Kenya’s cabinet secretary for Tourism and Wildlife, in a joint statement issued in Nairobi. “With nine pure northern white rhino embryos now developed, the partners in the project should embark on the next phase of the project-embryo transfer to the surrogate southern white females at Ol-Pejeta conservancy.”
Kenya has partnered with an international consortium of scientists, conservationists to help produce the next generation of northern white rhino through assisted reproduction technologies.
The harvesting of immature eggs from the two surviving female northern white rhinos and artificially inseminating them using sperm frozen from deceased male counterparts has been ongoing since 2019 at Ol Pejeta Conservancy based in northwestern Kenyan county of Laikipia.
KWS said that 14 out of the 19 immature eggs that were harvested from Fatu on March 28 produced four viable embryos after they were fertilized with thawed sperm from a deceased northern white rhino bull called Suni.
The four embryos are now stored in liquid nitrogen alongside the five ones that were created during earlier procedures as they await transfer to surrogate mothers to help produce new northern white rhino offspring.
Another milestone achieved in the rescue of northern white rhino was sterilization of a southern white rhino bull called Owuan in December 2020 to pave way for its role in helping determine the reproductive cycle of potential surrogate mothers without impregnating them.
KWS said that Owuan will be introduced to the southern white rhino females in the coming weeks to facilitate seamless transfer of embryos and produce new northern white rhino offspring.
“We are eager to get the progeny from the project that will guarantee survival of the species,” said Balala.
Nyanza police office to Strictly enforce Covid-19 protocols
Security agencies in the Nyanza region have been directed to enforce Covid-19 protocols and bring to book those found flouting the regulations.
Nyanza Regional Commissioner Magu Mutindika has singled out bars, Public Service Vehicles (PSV) and churches as hot spots for the spread of the virus as the country faces a third wave of Covid-19.
He has directed County commissioners, Deputy County commissioners, chiefs, the police and County enforcement officers to carry out a joint crackdown and arrest those flouting the rules.
Speaking to the media in Kisumu at a joint press briefing with Kisumu Governor Prof. Peter Anyang Nyong’o, Mr. Mutindika said the County government will revoke licences of bars breaking the regulations.
“We have realized that some bars close doors at 9.00 pm as required but still continue selling beer to revelers locked inside,” he revealed.
“This is a warning that this will not be tolerated and we have agreed that the County government who are the liquor licensing authority to cancel their licenses for ever,” he added.
The Regional commissioner, who was flanked by the Nyanza region and Kisumu County security teams criticized some people who are peddling lies about the covid-19 vaccine, saying the vaccine has been scientifically proven to be effective to boost body immunity and has no side effects,
Governor Nyong’o said the county government has rolled out several vaccination drives across the county for high risk populations and frontline workers.
“The health department has expanded vaccination centres at Kombewa, Ahero, Nyakach county referrals hospitals among others to ensure success of the drive,” he added.
The governor has however said the uptake of the vaccine amongst healthcare workers was lackluster, which was delaying commencement of other identified high risk populations.
“The positivity rate in Kisumu has risen from 2.5 per cent to 4.7 per cent in the past week, which translates to a 100 per cent rise in the said period.
‘During the briefing, Governor Nyong’o outlined stringent containment measures that require that all morgues not to preserve bodies for a period exceeding 72 hours and not to release any body after 10.00am
There shall be no night vigil in the homes of the deceased, maximum attendees to remain at 100 persons only and that all restaurants and bars adhere to covid-19 protocols and close 9.00pm among other protocols and other regulations.
County KNUT wants Sossion out as Sec Gen ahead of national polls, back rival
The Migori county Kenya National Union of Teachers council have joined a lineup crafted to kick out nominated MP Wilson Sossion as the giant union Secretary General.
The council which has four branches of Migori, Rongo, Kuria East and Kuria West said they will support Collins Henry Oyu who seeks to unseat Sossion.
Oyu is from Nyanza region and the same to Kennedy Nyamwanda who was also endorsed for the Assistant National Treasurer for the national polls slotted for June.
Paul Girwa, the council treasurer said because of Sossion leadership the union have been bleeding numbers and have a bad relation with the Teachers Service Commission (TSC).
Girwa said Sossion used the position of the secretary general to auction teachers from the country for his personal gains.Caleb Opondi, the Knut Secretary General said the move to back the two comes with a team crafted in all regions nationally.
In the team, the national chairman slot will go to Patrick Karinga from Central, National Treasurer will be James Ndiko from Eastern Region and the Deputy Secretary General will be Otieno Agola from Nairobi region.
The first Vice National Chairman will be Stanley Mutai from Rift Valley.
Migori’s public service board has raised concern over the county’s bulging wage bill.
According to the board chairman Jared Kopiyo, the county is spending a lot of money on wages and they are soon going to take action to downsize the bill.
Kopiyo said they are planning to conduct a headcount and payroll audit so that they can ascertain the genuine county government workers.
The county public service board vice chairman Jemima Were said the board is committed to ensuring that the devolved unit has a payroll system that is above board.Migori County has over 3000 workers in the payroll.
In 2018, Migori County conducted a workers’ headcount and the report indicated that the county was losing Ksh. 7,545, 643 per month in paying salaries to undeserved individuals.
The report also indicated that a total of 48 county employees who had deserted duties were irregularly taking home salaries amounting to Ksh. 869, 960 per month.
The 2018 report also reveals that eight people who had forged documents were taking home salaries totaling Ksh.318, 500 per month and 856 employees were earning undeserved allowances amounting to Ksh. 2,031,753 monthly.
During the headcount done in 2018, a total of 2615 employees out of the total 3345 were cleared during the exercise that was also aimed at weeding out ghost workers from the county payroll system.
GREENSPAN MALL, NAIVAS SUPERMARKET SIGN LEASE AGREEMENT
The Greenspan Mall, Donholm, a fully owned subsidiary of ILAM Fahari I-REIT, and Naivas Supermarket today announce the signing of a lease agreement that will see the Kenyan homegrown retail chain set up a flagship outlet at the Mall as the anchor tenant.
The store will occupy 57,000 square feet at the mall’s ground floor, offering shoppers the Foodmarket shopping experience, which focuses on delivering everyday fresh produce that guarantees value for money.
Designed in partnership with a leading international retail design firm, the store will be a hypermarket, offering extensive fresh produce and FMCG products. Importantly, an extensive range of electronics and general merchandise will also be on offer.
Speaking about this new development, Naivas Chief Commercial Officer, Willy Kimani said: “We are delighted at the prospect of opening a food market in Greenspan Mall, as it offers us an exciting opportunity to provide Eastlands shoppers the Naivas Foodmarket experience. "
We have not had this storemat in the greater area, which has been a long-standing request by our shoppers; we are finally able to fulfill this with the new development.”
He added: “This is not just a story about the expansion of the retailer but a mark of resilience of the retailer in the prevailing business environment and reminder of the commitment of the organization to fill the gaps in underserved communities when it comes to Supermarkets. 
As a business whose DNA is Kenyan, we bear a responsibility to society and with each store opening, we do our small bit in fulfilling this through purchases from suppliers, offering direct and indirect employment, which ultimately uplifts the communities we set up shop in.”
Commenting on the development, The REIT Chief Executive Officer, Einstein Kihanda, said the move fits within the mall’s strategic objective to enhance variety for the shoppers.
He stated, “We are excited to welcome Naivas Supermarket on board as a partner whom we believe fits perfectly within our growth and expansion strategy."
The partnership has been motivated by the need to continually offer shoppers at the mall a wide variety of brands, which confirms our sustained commitment to continue offering Greenspan Mall’s patrons a lasting experience all under one stable.”
We look forward to collaborating with our newest partner, existing tenants and the recently appointed Property Manager, Knight Frank Kenya Limited, on significant marketing and promotions investment to drive footfall to the mall and attract new tenants. 
The store is scheduled to open later in the year.
Gor Mahia’s Major Comeback
It was a glorious Monday afternoon for the legendary Gor Mahia after thrashing Bidco United 3 goals to 1 at the Kasarani Annex.
The goals started off at the 11th minute when Bidco’s Peter Nzuki gave the first score of the match after receiving a well chipped corner from David Kaluma.
Despite various signs of defeat, K’Ogalo’s Clifton Miheso took the golden chance of a freekick along the box edge to equalize the match.
Miheso didn’t plan on stopping there as he tried to take the leading button to Gor but was saved by Bidco’s Zamu Adisa.
It was at the top of the hour when Wilson Silva took the mighty Gor to the lead after a neat assist from the “equalizer” Miheso.
Not planning to stop, Clifton Miheso then gave a major assist that was warmly received by a tap to the net by Kenneth Muguna at the 84th minute giving K,Ogalo a 3-1 lead. 
This gave Gor 22 points making them 7th on the table
Gor Mahia fell 1-0 to Posta Rangers yesterday at the Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani yesterday.
Francis Nambute scored the sole goal at the 44th minute for Posta Rangers. 
Gor Mahia’s coach Carlos Manuel Vaz Pinto still persists that they were luckless. 
In his interview he said, “We attacked and didn’t convert the chances we got. 
It was not hard to play against 10 men and we dominated the game only that we were unlucky.”
K’ogalo sure did dominate the game at Kasarani to the extent that Vaz Pinto made changes during the game. 
He substituted Wilson Silva, Samuel Onyango, and Clifton Miheso for Jules Ulimwengu, John Macharia, and Farouk Abdul respectively. 
The loss has left K’ogalo seated at the 8th position with 19 points as the Posta Rangers players increased their tally points to 14 points.
Gor Mahia has so far lost six games since the start of the Football Kenya Federation Premier League.
 They lost 2-0 to KCB last weekend, managed a 2-1 win against Homeboyz on 3rd March, and fell 2-1 to Nzoia sugar on 27th February.
On Sunday, 7th March 2021, Gor Mahia were shown dust in the FKF Premier League by KCB at the Moi International Sports Centre Kasarani Stadium. 
KCB gained their victory from Dennis Simiyu, a former Vihiga United, at the 75th minute and Victor Omondi.
 Gor Mahia had faced Simiyu back in January 23rd while in Vihiga United where he scored 1-0 against K’ogalo.
There was a great struggle between the opponents to such a degree Gor almost equalized at the 82nd minute through Clifton Miheso but the KCB goalkeeper, Andika saved the ball.
Gor Mahia is facing their fifth lose this season after yesterday’s match and has dropped to 13th on 16th points. 
Gor Mahia’s coach Carlos Manuel Vaz Pinto had the following to remark; “In this game we were better that KCB especially in the second half."
 Yes, we made mistakes but i feel we just had bad luck.
SAUTI SOL, SOL GENERATION AND PACE LIMITED PARTNERS TO UNVEIL PACE SOL EARPODS
Sauti Sol, Sol Generation Records Limited & Keep Pace Africa Limited have announced a partnership in which they will introduce to the market Sauti Sol’s first ever product, PaceSol. 
The product is the love child of the band’s love for great audio and Pace’s expertise in manufacturing brilliant audio hardware. 
Tuned by the maestros themselves, PaceSol earbuds deliver unrivaled sound quality, package in comfortable, easy to wear, water resistant, Bluetooth buds, which are trendy, durable and affordable. 
“We wanted to create a product that sums us up as a group, part lifestyle, part activewear and part musical excellence.” Bien of Sauti Sol. 
“PaceSol is a product you can use anywhere and look good, and not compromise on your listening experience.” Chimano of Sauti Sol.
PaceSol is the first product in a range of future products to come from the partnership, and will focus on introducing unique but affordable tech products into the region. 
SAROVA PANAFRIC INTRODUCES DAYCATION PACKAGES
Sarova Hotels and Resort’s city property Sarova Panafric has introduced daycation packages for city dwellers looking for a serene environment to spend the day and for those seeking some time away from working from home.
The daycation package which is valid within hours of the day before curfew provides a room that comes with a 3-course lunch, morning and evening tea and snacks as well as select soft drinks all at a price of Ksh 7,500.
Sarova Panafric is also currently offering takeaway services following the directive from authorities to close restaurants and bars. In recent times the hotel has only been attending to in-house guests.
The Nairobi city hotel is seeking to meet customer demands in the current climate and has reinvented its offering to suit the dynamics and ensure that customers are comfortable, safe and can still enjoy the hotel’s services within the stipulated guidelines.
Some of the safety protocols the hotel has been employing include, frequently cleaned, sanitized and disinfected surfaces after every guest use, linen-less tables in the restaurants, social distancing and spaced seating as per Government’s specific directives, sanitized tableware and glassware after every guest use, QR coded and website menu availability, contactless payment options as well as guest signage reminders on safe hygiene practices.
Sarova also incorporated novelties to its in-room dining services to minimize contact including digital in-room menus, contactless delivery – placement outside room, and providing the option of disposable cutlery, crockery, and glassware. Gloves and masks to be worn as standard during all room service deliveries.
SCORPION KINGS DUO SHUT DOWN JUST A VIBE CONCERT AT CARNIVORE
Amapiano fans were treated to an unforgettable concert over the weekend by The Kings of Amapiano – Scorpion Kings duo DJ Maphorisa and Kabza De Small at the Carnivore grounds. 
The drive in event that started at 12noon saw revelers enjoy Amapiano vibes from Malonza, DJ Protégé, MGM, DJ Ally Fresh, DJ IV, Shema Dj and the stars of the afternoon Scorpion Kings. 
The duo who jetted in last Friday leaved up to their expectations as the reigning Kings of Amapiano as they kept the revelers on their feet with every beat. 
One of the revelers said, “I am so happy I got to attend this show, I am a fan of Dj Maphorisa and attending his show here in Kenya is a dream come true.
Mbuzi Gang the new kids on the gengetone block were the final act with their ShamraShamra hit song.
The show courtesy of Mtickets and Hype Afrika, Royal Tulip Canaan Nairobi and Carnivore. Supported by Homeboyz.
The event was also attended by various local celebrities – Veteran Producer Musyoka, Boneye, Fena Gitu, Brian Nadra, Nviiri, Elodie among others.
TANZANIA’S EXHILARATING ACTION FILM “NYARA” TO PREMIERE IN KENYAN CINEMAS FEB 26TH 2021
The album that Prince Kaybee has been teasing at since the beginning of 2021, has finally gone live as a pre-order across all digital platforms.
To accompany the launch of the pre-order of this highly anticipated album, Prince Kaybee has released a hot first single from the upcoming album.
“Ebabayo”, featuring Nokwazi marks the first collaboration between the two artists. 
Tanzanian action-packed movie “Nyara” (Swahili for The Kidnapping) is set to premiere nationwide in Kenyan cinemas, starting 26th February 2021. 
The film distributed by Crimson Multimedia Ltd will be available to watch in the following cities and cinemas; in Nairobi at Prestige Cinema; Westgate Cinema, Anga Cinema (Diamond Plaza); Mega Cinema (Kisumu), Motion Cinema (Greenspan Mall) and Mombasa (Nyali Cinemax). 
“Nyara” is also set to screen in Uganda’s NuMax Cinema.
“Nyara” is the first feature film from the Tanzanian renowned production conglomerate Wanene Entertainment; East Africa’s first 360 degree content creation company. 
It’s a must-see on the big screen, being Tanzania’s first locally produced action film to be mixed in 5.1 (surround sound specifically mixed for cinema release). Nyara’s original soundtrack and cameo appearances include bongo stars: DJ Sinyorita, Chid Benz, Weusi and Chin Bees.
The film’s storyline follows the kidnapping of a 7 year old girl called Rehema; the daughter of a rich and successful businessman, Adam. 
An ex-military serial killer escapes prison without a trace and becomes the leader of a gang of notorious kidnappers in Dar es Salaam; they are responsible for kidnapping Rehema under gunpoint. 
Short on time, Adam approaches his sister-in-law Faith for help; she is the Head of Police Special Forces undercover unit. 
She recruits her well trusted, strong team of martial arts fighters,The Dragon Boys.
The character of chief investigator Faith is played by Rose Donatus Ndauka – one of Tanzania’s most popular leading actresses in the Bongo Movie scene; celebrated for her role in “Swahiba” (2007). 
She portrays overwhelming talent and versatility, alongside the Kung-Fu Dragon Boys consisting of friends: Paul Peter, Baraka Singano, Jimmy Singano. 
The trio decided to enter the field of Action Movies in 2012, after getting training from Denis Singano who features in “Nyara” film as Freddie Ludewe, the escaped convict and gang leader. 
In real life Denis is Baraka and Jimmy’s older brother.
Ahead of the film release in Kenya, director of “Nyara”, Ram Kasongo, says, “Nyara marks the beginning of a new era of possibilities for Bongo movies here in Tanzania.
We are excited for Kenyans to experience our first commercial action film that is 100% a Tanzanian production, shot on location in Dar es Salaam. 
All the stunts were done by the actors themselves and no stunt doubles were involved in the making of the film, and all the costume design, sets and VFX were done by a local team here in Tanzania.
It took three years to complete the filming of “Nyara”. 
The director hopes that the cinema screenings in Kenya will encourage cross-collaborations between Kenya and Tanzania, as well as open doors for East African filmmakers to cross-over into international platforms and cinemas to further build both film and music industries.
Ram says, “The fact that “Nyara” is premiering nationwide in Kenya, opens doors to the wider global audience and this will additionally help promote Tanzanian talent in the arts,” concluding, “Hopefully this will have a knock-on effect that can see us further develop local talent and produce better and more authentic content that represents the diaspora at large.”
CA, telcos launch interactive portal for safer online environment
The Communications Authority of Kenya (CA) has, in partnership with local telecommunications service providers, launched an interactive portal aimed at creating a safer online environment for children.
The micro-site, developed in collaboration with Safaricom, Airtel, Telkom Kenya, Jamii Telecommunication Ltd and the Global System for Mobile Communications (GSMA), will provide online safety tips for children and guardians.
 “It also has a gaming component that enables both the young and the young at heart to measure their level of awareness on online risks such as cyber bullying, identity theft and online sexual harassment,” said Mercy Wanjau, Ag. Director General of the Communications Authority of Kenya (CA).
The launch comes against a backdrop of increased cyber-threats recorded in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has created a new frontier for cyber criminals. 
According to the Communications Authority of Kenya (CA) statistics for the quarter ending December 2020, the National Computer Incident Response Team Coordination Centre (KE-CIRT/CC) detected more than 56 million cyber threats in the country
A majority of the threats were malware attacks at 46 million, followed by web application attacks at 7.8 million while 2.2 million Distributed Denial of Service (DDos) threats were detected during the same period.
The ICT Cabinet Secretary, Joe Mucheru expressed fears on possible increase in the volume of cyber crime in the country in the lead up to the upcoming BBI referendum and the 2022 general elections, and urged the CA to boost its detection and monitoring capacity to mitigate the risk.
Speaking at the official opening of national Safe Internet Day celebrations, Mr. Mucheru lauded CA for working with other stakeholders to create a safer online environment.
Abuse and exploitation of children is unacceptable and should generally not be protected even by free speech principles.
In the Internet world, further protections are also needed to shield children from predators, who may contact them through deceptive enticements in online forums,” the ICT Cabinet Secretary said.
He further called on CA to liaise with relevant state agencies and private sector players to manage escalating cases of cybercrime.
Mrs Wanjau said the public would use the platform to report any cases of child online abuse, which will be directly channelled to CA for necessary action.
At the same time, the public can also access information about other organizations that offer support for children, including Childline Kenya, Kenya Association of Professional Counsellors, The Cradle and the Children’s department.
Making the Internet safe for our children and other users is a collaborative effort. 
By coming together to deliver this microsite, the Kenyan mobile industry has demonstrated the great things that we can achieve when we join hands and work together. 
We look forward to further deepening our collaboration further to consistently enhance safety and availability of the internet, as well as other pertinent challenges facing the industry,” said Stephen Chege, Safaricom’s Chief Corporate Affairs Officer, on behalf of the ‘We Care Initiative’.
Safer Internet Day began as an initiative of the European Union Safe Borders project in 2004, and is today celebrated in close to 130 countries around the world
Silverstone Air Rebrands As Renegade Air
Embattled Airline Silverstone seem to have found a way to comeback to the Kenyan skies after an imposed engine halts following numerous sell accidents that put the firm in negative limelight.
In February, Silverstone had announced the intention of coming back to business and they had applied with Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA) for the approval of rebranding.
It however now appears that the Airline is already back in operation.
Renegade Air which initially operated 3 planes under Governor’s Air has recently acquired a new fleet in their expansion plan. 
Silverstone aircraft have been included in what could be a new partnership. 
The airline that has been in operation since 2012 and only operated chartered flights and flights to Wajir County, has announced its expansion to new destinations Masai Mara, Malindi, and Lamu.
Dash 8-Q300 one of the most popular fleets of the Silverstone airline. 
The Dash 8s was also the reason Silverstone ground to an halt since it was responsible for the most accidents and mishaps.
The gradual process of starting with few routes could be a good strategy to develop customer confidence before they expand to other routes.
2021 Kuza awards launch
On Tuesday, March 23rd The Communications Authority of Kenya launched the 2021 Kuza Awards. 
The award is aimed at recognizing and fete broadcasters who demonstrate excellence in their broadcasts in line with the ICT law provisions.
The Authority has also partnered with Kenya Film Commission to support local content in the broadcast media industry which was adversely affected by the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
This is in line with the Authority’s mandated to facilitate a 40% local content coverage by all broadcasters.
The Communications Authority however raised concerns as a number of TV and Radio stations are slowly converting themselves into betting houses and said that betting and activities related can only be conducted in Kenya with authorisation and licenses given by the Betting Control and Licensing Board.
Schools ICT Integration Programme on course
The ICT Authority is this week hosting 65 officers drawn from 15 government agencies and partners to develop the Digital Literacy Programme (DLP) Master Plan to guide the implementation of the Programme going forward.
ICT Authority CEO Dr. Katherine Getao said  that the Digital Literacy Programme is on course and so far over 1.2 million devices have been installed in 21,638 public primary schools countrywide in line with Vision 2030.
The first phase of the project has been completed. 
A total of 331,000 teachers have been trained and content access, on a continuous basis, is being provided to public primary schools through the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD),” she said.
Dr.  Getao said that, so far Kshs 31 billion have been injected into phase one project being cost for the digital devices while a further Kshs 64 billion is earmarked for devices for phase two of the project. 
The CEO noted that education is a capital intensive.
She said that the DLP was critical in terms of delivering the 21st century skills to children to get information, learn how to use devices and read in a different subject area.
The Digital Literacy Programme is borne out of the Government of Kenya’s vision to make sure every pupil is prepared for today’s digital world, and to transform learning in Kenya into a 21st century education system.
This Digital Economy emphasizes on digital skills and promotes the vision of a digitally empowered citizenry and living in a digitally enabled society.
Under the Programme, the ICT Authority is supporting government efforts to integrate ICT into teaching and learning in Kenya.
The programme aims to support the new Competency Based Curriculum  (CBC).
The CBC include critical thinking, creativity, communication, collaboration and innovation aimed at preparing learners to competitively participate in a knowledge-based economy.
The Programme is being implemented through a multi-agency approach where all the key implementing agencies have come together to facilitate the implementation. 
The agencies are Ministry of Education, Ministry of ICT, Innovation & Youth Affairs, Ministry of Energy, Ministry of Industrialization, The National Treasury, Teachers Service Commission (TSC), Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD), Kenya Primary Schools Head Association, Rural Electrification and Renewable Energy Corporation, Kenya Power and the Kenya Institute of Special Education as well KNUT.
 Other agencies represented in the workshop are the Communications Authority and the Kenya society for the Blind.
Government to issue out free sanitary towels
The Government of Kenya through the Ministry of Education will distribute free sanitary towels to all primary school girls in adolescent age.
Education CS Prof.George Magoha announced this on Wednesday at Our Lady of Fatima Secondary School in Kariobangi, Nairobi County during an inspection tour.
“Every girl who is in primary school and is in puberty will receive sanitary towels to last nine months… we are also in talks with KCB Foundation for the same provision to secondary schools,” he said.
He also added that they are in talks with Kenya Commercial Bank to supply sanitary towels to all High school girls in the country.
This move follows pleas by many stakeholders for the need to provide sanitary towels for free or at a subsidized fee to enable every girl in need to access them.
He also urged parents to rise up to the occasion and offer good parenting to their children so as to provide them with proper discipline and not neglect them.
“The problem is that parents are not giving their children tough love… because for nine months a child has been at home and you’ve been treating him like an egg and you expect the Principal to instill in him discipline, what do you think will happen?” Magoha said.
NYANZA YOUNG LEADERS WHO ARE THE VOICE OF THE LAKE REGION
‘Funny, stubborn, talented’: Comedians pay tribute to Othuol Othuol Othuol
Artistes, villagers and relatives have gathered in Ndere village, Siaya County to mourn Churchill Show comedian Ben Maurice Omondi popularly known as Othuol Othuol.
Despite being a funeral, there were light moments when the artistes took to the stage with Otieno Aloka’s Kanungo song, which the late Othuol loved most.
When they took to the stage, the artistes danced to celebrate the life of their departed colleague.
The artists led by Felix Odiwuor aka Jalan’go eulogised the departed artist as a stubborn but talented individual.
According to Jalan’go, he is mourning his son.
“When he came to Nairobi, he said that he wanted to be like me and I gave him the platform,” said Jalan’go.
Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers!
The late Othuol’s aunt Rose Apondi said he started living with him when he was three-year-old.
“He went to Nzoia Primary School when he was nicknamed Othuol because his waist was small. He started making people laugh when he was in Class Four,” Apondi eulogised him.
Othuol Othuol died on October 11 after a long struggle with a brain tumour.
He died at Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi, where he had been receiving treatment.
The comedian has been in and out of hospital since last year and once sought support from the public in dealing with an undisclosed sickness and depression.
He was diagnosed with tuberculosis about 10 months ago and was admitted to KNH and discharged after six months.
Lucas Meso Exits Agricultural Finance Corporation
Agricultural Finance Corporation, AFC has announced the exit of its Managing Director Mr. Lucas Meso from the state parastal. 
The Board has now appointed Ms Rose Ochanda as the Acting Managing Director.
Untill her appointment, Ochando served as the Corporation’s Secretary and Chief Manager Legal Services. 
She has been at AFC for 12 years.
The exiting MD Lucas Meso has joined the  Corporation in 2011 at a time when it was struggling and on its kness. During his tenure, he oversaw gradual growth of the corporation and expansion iof number of branches.
Ag MD Ms Ochando being handed over to by Lucas Meso, on looking is Board Chairman Franklin Bett
In his period as the MD, he oversaw the investment of over Kshs.37.3 Billion into the agricultural sector. 
This was made possible by a ramped stakeholder engagement and resource mobilization effort that saw the Government inject over Kshs. 6.5 Billion shillings into the Corporation, Ksh. 567 Million in commitments and disbursements from Partners and an additional Kshs. 12 Billion shillings currently under negotiation.
Mr. Meso also oversaw internal business process re-engineering, enhanced performance management and improved employee welfare, acquisition and roll-out of ICT systems. 
This has led to an AFC that is adaptable and future-ready and with the adoption of its current disruptive strategy, the Corporation is now uniquely positioned to undertake its mandate in a more effective manner.
Speaking during the handing over ceremony at the corporation office, Meso said “AFC is truly a Corporation full of talented people, and brilliant minds. "
The AFC Chairman Hon. Franklin Bett lauded the outgoing MD noting that he had served diligently and resuscitated an institution that had been written off. .
Over the years I have worked at AFC, I have seen the many ways in which our brand has improve people’s lives, positively impacting more than 120,000 citizens every day”.
“Meso is an exceptional leader who has transformed AFC, making it one of the best-performing Development Financial Institution (DFI) in the country and Africa.” Bett said. 
“He leaves a more agile and resilient AFC, well placed to win in this fast-changing, dynamic industry.” He added
AFC is the leading Government credit institution mandated to provide credit for the sole purpose of developing agriculture in the country.
The Corporation offers short, medium- and long-term finance and currently has six (6) regional offices and forty-seven (47) branches across the country.
President Kenyatta Signs the 2020/21 County Revenue Allocation Bill
President Uhuru Kenyatta has this morning at State House, Nairobi signed into law the 2020/2021 County Revenue Allocation Bill paving the way for the disbursement of exchequer funds to the Counties.
The new law allocates a sum of Kshs 369.87 billion in the current fiscal year to Counties and includes Kshs 316.5 billion of Equitable Share and Kshs 13.73 billion in Government of Kenya Conditional Grants.
Also included is Kshs 9.43 billion from the Road Maintenance/Fuel Levy as well as Kshs 30.2 billion in Loans and Grants.
The conditional allocation will be utilized in provision of services such as leasing of medical equipment and rehabilitation of youth polytechnics across all the 47 Counties.
The Bill was presented to the Head of State for signature by Speaker of the Senate Ken Lusaka at a ceremony attended by Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi and Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yattani.
Nominee Judge Harrison Okeche Dies
Nominee Judge of the Employment and Labour Relations  Court  Harrison Okeche has died.
Oketch succumbed due to multiple Injuries he sustained following a road accident on October 4th at Ololunga Bridge along the Bomet – Narok Road.
After being involved in an accident on the fateful day, Okeche recieved emergency treated at a clinic in Narok before being transferred on the same day to Aga Khan Hospital in Nairobi. Here he was put under Intensive care due to the serious injuries he had sustained.
Okeche succumbed due to multiple Injuries he sustained following a road accident on October 4th at Ololunga Bridge along the Bomet – Narok Road.
Okeche was among the 41 judges awaiting president Uhuru Kenyatta appointment to join the Judiciary as a Judge. 
Chief Justice David Maraga has euologized the late as a committed legal practioner in the country. 
” A dynamic Profesional who served people of Kenya in many public positions. As Judiciary we feel the pain of his loss before he could render his service to the cause of justice delivery in Kenya” Maraga said in a statement.
He was currently working at Stanchart Bank as Head of Employee  Relations for Kenya and East Africa . 
He was married and blessed with 2 sons and one daughter.
Pageant wife of Derek Chauvin doesn’t want a penny in their divorce
The wife of ‘killer cop’ Derek Chauvin followed through with her vow to divorce him today, insisting in a bombshell court filing that she doesn’t want a penny from the shamed ex-cop, DailyMail.com can disclose. 
Kellie Chauvin, 45, said she was divorcing her husband of ten years due to the ‘irretrievable breakdown’ of their relationship.
She also revealed the couple officially split on May 28 – three days after he’s accused of killing George Floyd by kneeling on his neck during a brutal nine-minute arrest.
Despite Kellie, a realtor, stating she is currently unemployed, the mom of two adult sons from another relationship said she did not want any money or financial assistance from Chauvin.
‘Respondent is full capable of supporting herself,’ the filing reads.
She also revealed that the couple officially split on May 28 – three days after he’s accused of killing George Floyd by kneeling on his neck during a brutal nine-minute arrest.
Kellie, who came to the US as a child refugee from Laos, also applied to the court to have her name changed.
A former Mrs Minnesota America pageant winner, she once worked as a radiologist at Hennepin County Medical Center in Minneapolis, the same hospital where Floyd was pronounced dead. 
The couple met when Chauvin brought a suspect in for a health check before an arrest, returning to the hospital shortly after their initial meeting to ask her out.
They married June 12, 2010 in Washington County, Minnesota, the same court where she filed her divorce petition today.
Disgusted Kellie kept her silence for several days as video of Chauvin’s brutal antics went viral, before releasing a statement Friday indicating that her sympathies lay with the victim and his family – not with her husband. 
‘This evening, I spoke with Kellie Chauvin and her family. 
She is devastated by Mr. Floyd’s death and her utmost sympathy lies with his family, with his loved ones and with everyone who is grieving this tragedy,’ attorney Amanda Mason-Sekula said on her behalf. 
‘While Ms. Chauvin has no children from her current marriage, she respectfully requests that her children, her elder parents, and her extended family be given safety and privacy during this difficult time.’ 
Chauvin was arrested and charged Friday with third-degree murder and manslaughter in the death of Floyd.  
Kellie writes in the filing, obtained exclusively by DailyMail.com, that they called quits on their marriage one day earlier.
‘The parties have been separated since May 28, 2020,’ it reads.
‘There has been an irretrievable breakdown of the marriage relationship of the parties within the definition of Minn. Stat. 518.06, and the marriage cannot be saved.’ 
The filing explains that while Kellie was recently a realtor with Remax Results she is currently unemployed. 
But it adds: ‘Petitioner is self-supporting, is not in need of spousal maintenance, and waives her right to receive temporary or permanent spousal maintenance from respondent’. 
She does, however, ask the court to award her ownership of the former couple’s two homes, one in the leafy Oakdale suburb of Saint Paul, and a second in Windermere, Florida. 
Both properties have been abandoned for days after they were surrounded by protesters and covered in graffiti. 
As part of a press push for her bid for the beauty contest Mrs. Minnesota America 2018, Kellie had raved about her husband, telling the St Paul Pioneer Press: ‘Under all that uniform, he’s just a softie.’ 
She also told the outlet how the shaven-haired ex-lawman was a major upgrade over her previous husband. 
‘He’s such a gentleman. He still opens the door for me, still puts my coat on for me. 
After my divorce, I had a list of must-haves if I were ever to be in a relationship, and he fit all of them,’ she said. 
Kellie won the contest in October that year and went to Las Vegas in 2019 to compete for the national rounds of the pageant. 
Today, however, her glamorous life is in ruins, with her husband regarded by many as the poster boy for white police brutality towards African Americans. 
A shell-shocked relative told DailyMail.com that Kellie did not want to talk with the media and they did not want to stoke tensions further by speaking out on her behalf. 
Her attorney Ms Mason-Sekula added: ‘Ms. Chauvin is not providing any additional statements at this time.’  
Chauvin was moved to one of the most secure prisons in the US Sunday night to ensure he won’t be murdered behind bars, DailyMail.com previously revealed.
In a highly unusual move, Chauvin, who is facing a murder charge in the death of George Floyd, was transferred late Sunday to Oak Park Heights Prison – Minnesota’s only Level Five maximum security facility.
He was previously at Ramsey County Adult Detention Center where he was on suicide watch, before being moved to the Hennepin County Jail because of COVID-19 concerns but then moved to the high-security prison. 
The Minnesota Department of Corrections (DOC) told DailyMail.com that Chauvin was transferred to prison and placed in ‘administrative segregation’ – solitary confinement – after a plea from the Hennepin County Sheriff. 
The 407-inmate prison boasts of never having had an escape and is also regarded as one of the country’s safest, having only had one homicide in its history. 
Located on the border with Wisconsin, between the cities of Bayport and Stillwater, it accepts some of America’s most hated and high-risk inmates.
Chauvin was due to appear in court on Monday but with Minneapolis still gripped by unrest the appearance was pushed back until June 8.
Commissioner of Corrections Paul Schnell said Chauvin was moved to prison because of concerns about coronavirus and the huge influx of people being booked into Twin Cities jails on public order offenses. 
‘First and foremost, we have a COVID situation. Second of all, a large number of people could be booked into Hennepin County Jail,’ Schnell said.
Privately though, law enforcement sources told DailyMail.com the move was to ensure Chauvin – now America’s most hated inmate – was not murdered behind bars. 
‘If he was in the general jail population he would probably be dead in two minutes,’ a source told DailyMail.com.  
‘This is entirely for security purposes.’
Chauvin will be held at the prison until next Monday when authorities face the daunting challenge of keeping his first court appearance in downtown Minneapolis shielded from further unrest.  
It’s highly unusual to lock defendants up in prison before they have been convicted, however officials did something similar in the case of disgraced Minneapolis officer Mohamed Noor who shot dead a woman in 2017 while responding to her 911 call.
Across the country, protests and riots have broken out as demonstrators protest against police brutality and racism, amid a backdrop of a country that had already been shaken by economic uncertainty and public health fears caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
Cities across the nation appear war-torn after rioters set establishments and cars in the middle of streets on fire, smashed windows of local stores and looted their shelves and clashed with law enforcement.
Many governors activated the National Guard in their states and sent them to cities being affected by protests turned to violence.
The president did not appear publicly on Sunday to address the rioters, who have engulfed the perimeter of the White House as well taken to the streets in several other U.S. cities, he did weigh in on Twitter, claiming that governors need to activate the National Guard in their states.
He lauded the improvements over the weekend in Minneapolis, Minnesota by the National Guard’s presence – and while the demonstrations have appeared less violent since they started at the end of last week, police in the city said they discovered Sunday caches of homemade firebombs around the city.
Trump had to flee to the White House bunker to shelter in place for a short period of time on Friday, it was revealed on Sunday.
The president has also told aides that he’s concerned about his safety as the White House turned off its lights Sunday night while protests and riots continued a few hundred yards away from the residence.
Colgate partners with WellBoring to donate a further 30 water wells, targeting schools in Kenya
Colgate announced today, in support of World Water Day, an extension of its partnership to drill water wells to provide clean and safe drinking water to Kenyan communities and extended an invitation to consumers to support the effort by purchasing Colgate products. 
For the past 2 years, Colgate has supported 60 water wells at schools in 5 counties (Kisumu, Siaya, Kakamega, Migori and Kwale) working with WellBoring, a UK NGO. 
The partnership has benefited approximately 60 000 lives.
Due to the severity of the water challenge across rural communities, in 2021 Colgate aims to donate a further 30 Water Wells where thousands of pupils, their teachers, and their families may all gain access to clean drinking water. 
Colgate has long supported schools in Kenya through its Bright Smiles, Bright Futures (BSBF) program. 
Colgate’s BSBF program delivers oral health education as well as toothbrushes and toothpaste to millions of kids across the African continent.
The BSBF program in Kenya started in 1968 and has reached well over 7 million kids in Kenya. 
The Colgate brand is in more homes than any other, so we can and we will create a healthier, more sustainable future for all.
Creating access to clean water is critical to this mission. 
We are delighted with our collaboration with Wellboring NGO and the opportunity to build these 30 boreholes, as a step towards providing pupils with clean and safe water, not only for their drinking but also for their learning environments and overall quality of life “, said Vijay Ameta, General Manager of Colgate-Palmolive East Africa Ltd. 
“People in Kenya can make a donation through a purchase of any Colgate product at their nearest Naivas store; and via Mpesa on the WellBoring website (www.Wellboring.org/Colgate).
All the donations will help towards drilling the 30 water wells”. 
Clean water for hundreds of school children and teachers, reduces water-borne diseases including cholera, dysentery and typhoid among children and increases the school enrollment as most children won’t spend their time scouting for water.
"We urge Kenyans to support the initiative as it not only, in the long run, reduces water-borne diseases but also helps in keeping the children in school.” explains Lucy Njoroge, WellBoring Project Engineer.
This water Initiative delivers on Colgate’s brand promise that everyone deserves a future they can smile about. 
The Campaign will run from 1 April 2021 to 31 May 2021.
 Consumers can visit Colgate-Palmolive Kenya Facebook page or Wellboring/Colgate.com for more information.
Two grade three pupils drown in River Rionsata
Two Grade Three pupils have drowned in River Rionsata in South Mugirango, Kisii.
According to Etago Sub-County Commissioner Jackson Olechuta, the two drowned as they were walking along the river bank, after attending a CBC lesson. 
They were accompanied by their teacher.
Several other pupils were rescued by police and locals.
“All pupils are safe and have gone back to school.
We call for calm as we investigate the circumstances under which the two drowned,” Olechuta said.
Kisii County Commander Jebel Munene said a team of officers have been sent to the area to conduct further investigations.
Their bodies have been taken to Tabaka Mission Hospital mortuary.
Pastoralist leaders now declare support for BBI after Raila meet
Pastoralist communities have made an about-turn and declared their unwavering support for the BBI report after they were assured their concerns would be addressed.
The pastoralist leaders were led by Jubilee Coalition Secretary Adan Keynan and National Treasury CS Ukur Yatani.
The Pastoralist Leaders Forum, which comprises of governors, MPs, CSs and PSs and speakers of county assemblies, on Monday said members had unanimously resolved to throw their weight behind the BBI process.
The leaders had last week identified 10 areas that they wanted to be amended but have since narrowed them down to three.
CS Yatani, the group leader, said former Prime Minister Raila Odinga assured them that their concerns would be addressed.
ODM leader Raila Odinga when he addressed the Pastoralist Leaders Forum at the Serena Hotel on November 9, 2020.
I can confirm to you that we have been deliberating on the matter and we have now resolved to support the BBI in totality.
We want to thank President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga for having a special place for us in this matter,” said Yatani after a meeting with Raila at a Nairobi hotel.
The leaders agreed to form a technical committee that will liaise with the BBI team to address their concerns.
The three issues they said would be extending the Equalisation Fund for 20 years, establishing the Livestock Marketing Authority and deleting proposed amendment on Article 203 (1) of the Constitution on revenue allocation.
 Members of the Pastoralist Leaders Forum when they met ODM leader Raila Odinga at the Serena Hotel on November 9, 2020.
Concerns identified earlier but were dropped include securing and protecting the 290 existing constituencies, making Senate the Upper House and doing away with the proposal to create the Health Service Commission.
Raila said the three concerns raised by the pastoralist communities would be adequately addressed.
The issues will be taken on board. 
"The technical team will sit down and look at them,” he assured.
Raila added that it is important to address the issues of concern raised by pastoralist communities if their potential is to be unlocked.
“Pastoralist areas are rich in resources and have the potential for tourism and other businesses. Infrastructure is also critical in these areas because these regions have been subjected to marginalisation for a long time,” he explained.
He added: “We are reading from the same page and talking the same language. Each and every Kenyan is equal.”

