How corpse of missing Civil Defence officer was discovered in a shallow grave
The remains of a female officer of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) who went missing 18 months ago has been discovered in a shallow grave in Obi Local Government Area of Benue State.
Until she went missing, the deceased, Josephine Cynthia Inalegwu Onche, was serving at an NSCDC post in the Otukpo area of the state.
Cynthia, an Idoma native of Otukpo origin, suddenly went missing while her wedding plans were underway.
Some of her colleagues who didn’t want their names on print, narrated that the family of the deceased had reported her disappearance few days to her wedding in December 2019.
She was said to have gone to the market to buy some items in preparation for her wedding but never made it back home.
One of the deceased’s colleagues said several efforts to locate her did not yield results until a commercial motorcyclist disclosed where she was buried.
The cyclist was said to have told the family of the deceased that their daughter was allegedly killed and buried by her husband-to-be for ritual purposes.
Thereafter, he (cyclist) had led the family and security operatives to arrest the groom who in turn led the police to Ogun State where they arrested the native doctor alleged to have performed the ritual at Obi LGA before his relocation to a south west state.
While the suspected killer groom and the native doctor had been allegedly held by the police in Otukpo, the family of the late security personnel exhumed her remains and organised a burial on Tuesday, June 1st, 2021.
Spokesperson of the Benue Police command, DSP Catherine Anene, did not answer calls or react to messages sent to her over the development.
Contacted, the State Command’s Public Relations Officer of NSCDC, ASC Ejelikwu Michael, declined comments, promising that he would speak on the issue at a later date.
But an insider said the news of Cynthia’s corpse being found has thrown the command into mourning again.

Constitution review: Shariah was in south west before Christianity – MURIC
The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has asked the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) to “mind its business and stop opposing the Muslims right to operate Shariah.”
MURIC Director, Prof. Ishaq Akintola, said this in a statement on Sunday.
This followed a warning the PFN  issued against the move by any group to introduce Sharia law to the South-West through the ongoing constitutional review being carried out by the Senate.
“PFN and other Christian groups are fully aware that Shariah was in the South West decades before the arrival of Christianity in 1842.
Shariah was practiced in Ede under Oba Abibu Olagunju (Habeeb, a Muslim name) and
the Ede Shariah Court operated up till 1913 at Agbeni area of the town.
“It was moved to Agbongbon area in 1914.
Shariah was applied in Iwo under Oba Momodu Lamuye (Muhammad Lamuye) who died in 1906.
Even the seventh Akirun of Ikirun, Oba Aliyu Oyewole (died 1912), instituted Shariah in Ikirun in 1910.
“These are just examples of the existence and spread of Shariah in Yorubaland and the Christian leaders are not oblivious of the fact that it was the British Christian colonialists who stopped Shariah in Yorubaland and imposed Christian common law,” Akintola said.
He added that the PFN and other Christians are equally aware of the rising tide of Islamic awareness in the same South West and that they were only afraid that the sleeping giant is waking up to take back what belongs to it.
He said, “Our Christian neighbours know well that Shariah is the Allah-given fundamental human right of Muslims.
But they are determined to deprive us of it using unorthodox methods.
They believe they are at war with Muslims and to them, everything is fair in war.
They are using both fair and foul means to achieve their objective.
“We call on Nigerians to understand the siege mentality of our Christian neighbours.
Like all aggressors, they believe that attack is the best form of defence.
As the benefactors and inheritors of colonial rampage that lasted more than a century, they are determined to keep all the loot which their principal bequeathed to them.
They are determined to keep the Muslims in a concentration camp into which the colonial masters drove them.
“The Constitution Review Panel asked Nigerians to forward their views regarding what they want in the constitution.
Each group is supposed to submit its needs.
But instead of telling the panel what the Christians want, PFN has gone ahead to say what they do not want Muslims to ask for.
It is an attempt to gag Muslims in the South West and it will not work.”
He said that the claim of religious tolerance in the South-West is a sham and a mantra designed to keep Yoruba Muslims in perpetual slavery.
“Muslims in the region are waking up and asking for freedom.
We demand a halt to the forceful use of Christian school uniform, Christian education, Christian law.
We demand civil Shariah, not criminal Shariah that involves the cutting of hands but civil Shariah to regulate Muslim marriages, inheritance, family affairs.
It has nothing to do with Christians.
We will use every peaceful and constitutional means available to attain this objective,” he added.

Stakeholders in Edo South affirm Obaseki as party leader
Following the internal crisis rocking the Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over who controls the party’s structure, members of the Edo South Senatorial district of the party Sunday passed a vote of confidence on the state Governor, Godwin Obaseki and his Deputy, Philip Shaibu.
Edo South PDP in a communiqué issued at the end of its stakeholders’ meeting in Benin City, at the weekend, also affirmed Governor Obaseki as the leader of the party in the state.
The communiqué read by its Secretary, Wilson Evbuomwan, also said the stakeholders supported harmonisation and integration of new entrants into the executive committee of the party for effective development of the state.

Police nab suspected kidnappers, recover guns in Abuja
The FCT Police Command has arrested eight suspected kidnappers along Shenegu-Tunga Maje, Gwagwalada, Kabusa village and Durumi axis of Abuja.
Spokesperson of the command, ASP Maryam Yusuf, who disclosed this in a statement in Abuja, yesterday, gave the names of the  suspects as Yakubu Ahmadu, Ibrahim Mallam Musa, and Bello Haruna.
She said the suspects were  members of a syndicate also linked to the kidnap attempt on the Vice President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA)
Gwagwalada branch, Barrister David Aigbefoh.
She said the suspects were arrested during a coordinated intelligence operation by police operatives from the command’s anti-kidnapping squad at Shenegu mountain on the border of the FCT and Niger State.
She said the suspects have provided useful information on the activities of their syndicate.
Yusuf  further disclosed that one Nwite Jideofor was arrested for staging his own kidnap along Durumi axis, saying the suspect confessed to conniving with his ‘abductors’ to defraud his sister of the sum of N5 million which he demanded as ransom.
She said exhibits recovered from all the suspects included three Dane guns, seven cutlasses, one black painted Honda Accord, four mobile phones and other items, adding that effort was on to arrest other members of the syndicates now at large.
She said all the suspects would be arraigned in court upon conclusion of investigation, while she urged residents of the FCT, particularly parents and guardians to prevail upon their wards to desist from engaging in any form of criminality.

Suarez strikes as Atletico win La Liga title
Luis Suarez’s goal has secured a 2-1 victory for Atletico Madrid over Real Valladolid on Saturday that clinched his team another remarkable La Liga title.
Suarez began the season crying after being forced out of Barcelona but ended it with his 21st goal of the season earning Atletico a first league triumph since 2014, this one at the expense of Real Madrid.
Atletico knew victory would guarantee them the title regardless of what Real Madrid did at home to Villarreal
but it was never comfortable, with Valladolid taking a shock early lead.
Real Madrid were behind too for most of the afternoon but Karim Benzema equalised in the 87th minute and Luka Modric even scored a late winner for 2-1 at Valdebebas, leaving Atletico hanging on at the end, as they were suddenly one goal away from squandering it all.
When the final whistle blew, the players ran onto the pitch, Suarez underneath a pile of red and white shirts, with Europe’s most nerve-wracking and unpredictable title race finally complete.
‘Suarez Zone’ 
Just over a week ago
, coach Diego Simeone said this was the “Suarez Zone”
and so it proved, the Uruguayan scoring the winner against Osasuna last week to keep the title in Atletico’s hands and then again on the last day to put their name on the trophy.
This is only the second time in 17 years that a team other than Barcelona or Real Madrid have won the title, with Atleti claiming the other one under Simeone in 2014.
Atletico went into the game having been top since December and on the back of beating Osasuna with two goals in the last eight minutes, a victory that was so dramatic it felt like it would prove decisive.
But Atletico have done nothing the easy way this season, with their 10-point lead in February cut to two in May and their position at the top of the table relying on numerous slip-ups from both Real Madrid and Barcelona.
So it was apt that faced with beating Real Valladolid, who were 19th on the table, they still had to scrape over the line.
Several hundred Atletico fans gathered in Valladolid’s Plaza Mayor in the hours before kick-off to sing songs and a similar number made it outside the stadium, where they were cordoned off in a cess-pit of nerves and anticipation.
(AFP)

Gulak’s assassination sparks outrage
There was outrage and mourning Sunday over the assassination of Barr.
Ahmed Gulak, a former political adviser to President Goodluck Jonathan, by gunmen in Imo State.
Gulak was shot dead by assailants who trailed him to Obiangwu village as he made way to Sam Mbakwe Airport, in Owerri, the Imo State Capital, on his way to Abuja.
Funeral prayers for the Adamawa-born politician were conducted yesterday evening at the National Mosque, Abuja, after which his remains were interred at the Gudu Cemetry at around 8 pm.
Police in Imo last night said they had tracked down suspected killers of the of the All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, and killed at least six of them, after a fierce encounter.
A statement signed by the Police Public Relations Officer, SP Bala Elkana, said that “On 30th May, 2021 following a distress received by the Command on the gruesome murder of Ahmed Gulak, Police Special Forces made up of Intelligence Response Team (IRT), Police Mobile Force (PMF) and Tactical Units from the command were deployed to the scene at Obiangwu Junction at Ngorokpala LGA of Imo state.
The teams were given a clear instruction to identify and apprehend the perpetrators of the act with a view of bringing them to justice.
Vehicles belonging to the suspected killers of Ahmed Gulak intercepted by Police in Imo yesterday
“Eyewitnesses account, especially the account given by the Driver of the vehicle that was conveying Ahmed Gulak to the Airport before the attack, gave a vivid description of the assailants and the vehicles they used in carrying out the attack.
“The assailants were said to have used a Toyota Camry 2005 model with silver color; Toyota Sienna 1998 Model with golden color;
Toyota Hilux with white color; and a Lexus RX 330 with golden Color.
(Registration numbers are withheld for security reasons).
“Having established the identity of the assailants and the description of the vehicles used in carrying out the attack, the teams further got details of the direction the hoodlums have taken.
With further leads, the team was able to establish the location of suspects.
“The suspects were rounded up at Afor Enyiogugu junction in Aboh-Mbaise Local Government Area.
The hoodlums where met distributing onions to locals from a trailer they confiscated.
The trailer was loaded with Onions from the Northern region of Nigeria.
“On sighting the Police, the hoodlums providing security coverage to those sharing the onions opened fire on the Police teams.
“The Gallant and battle ready
Police Officers swiftly returned the fire.
The six hoodlums who carried out the killings and four other members of their gang were fatally injured.
Three out of the four vehicles used in attacking Gulak were recovered.
“Three AK 47 Rifles, one Pistol, five AK 47 magazines with ninety two rounds of live ammunition and criminal charms were recovered.
The assailants were identified as members of the proscribed IPOB and ESN.
“The driver who drove late Ahmed Gulak and a co- victim who survived have all identified the dead body of the IPOB/ESN members positively as their attackers and also identified the three vehicles recovered as those used by the attackers.
“During the encounter, two of the police armored personnel carriers (APC) were riddled with bullets but survived the gun battle.”
A video clip on the aftermath of the attack shows Gulak in a pair of Jean trousers and a blue T-shirt lying in a pool of his own blood, besides the abandoned car.
Gulak was the chairman of the controversial Imo All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary election that produced Hope Uzodinma as the party’s flagbearer.
He was also said to have remained close to the governor visiting the state frequently.
‘Why he was in Owerri’
Though Gulak is said to be a regular visitor to Owerri since the ascension of Uzodinma, his last trip was however to attend the public hearing of the constitution review committee held in the city.
After the conclusion of the committee’s sitting, Gulak stayed back while other members of the committee departed the city on Friday.
A source close to Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, who chaired the public hearing in Owerri said the deceased was offered to fly on Kalu’s private jet after the public hearing, but he declined.
According to the source, Kalu’s team left Owerri on the day the public hearing ended but Gulak stayed behind saying he had things to do in the city.
The source said: “We left Owerri on the day the public hearing ended and we asked him to join us on our private jet and we had enough security with us.
But he said he had things to do in the city.”
Nigerians knock FG, political actors over killing 
Nigerians on social media berated the federal government and political actors for his killing.
A commentator on the Facebook link of the story published by Daily Trust, Ifeanyi Maduako, while describing Gulak’s death as ‘’distasteful’’, linked the incident with politics.
‘‘This killing is very distasteful to me.
It appears political and those behind it should be unraveled.
The killing will expose those behind the current insecurity in Imo State.
‘‘Who invited him and why killing a northerner in Imo State?
I am very afraid what fate awaits innocent Imo State people in the coming days in the hands of northern controlled security agencies,’’ he wrote.
Another commentator on the thread, Oloruntobi Micheal Omo, noted: ‘’The police report proves that this killing is political and hence calls for an in-depth investigation.
Police I guess have some questions to answer.’’
On his part, Comr Umar Hassan Ahmad wrote, “The soul of our innocent people is more important than this scam which is called Nigeria unity.
‘‘This illiteracy will not be acceptable to us, enough is enough we are peacemakers
but those are pushing us to the wall that this peacemaking can no longer be sustained.
I am warning our retaliation will be worst.
Buhari you failed us woefully, am urging Imo police to confront the culprit’’
Nasiru Inuwa wrote, “A wake up call to the northern elites, they’ve started with the innocent Fulani herders & now turned to northern govt officials & prominent politicians…’’
Count us out – IPOB
The outlawed IPOB, in a statement by its secretary, Emma Powerful, faulted reports linking it to the murder of Gulak, noting that the assassination of politicians is not part of its agenda.
“We, therefore, state without equivocations that IPOB knows nothing about the said assassination.
In the first place, what threat did the late Gulak constitute to our cause to warrant his elimination?
We had nothing in common with him and could not have in any way killed him.
“Pointing accusing fingers at IPOB for this barbaric act is only meant to divert attention away from the real masterminds.
This is the same way terrorists in security uniform commit various atrocities in South East and turn around to blame IPOB for their crimes just to tarnish our global reputation.
“This is purely a smokescreen to justify their long-awaited plan to declare another special military operation in the Eastern region to kill more innocent Biafrans.
“Instead of the security agencies to properly investigate the incident and possible factors, they switch to accuse IPOB of a crime we know nothing about.
Did IPOB have the itinerary of the late Gulak to have waylaid him at the airport?”
The group said security agencies should first investigate “Gulak’s host, Hope Uzodinma, as well as his political opponents to establish their possible involvement”.
Buhari:
Those behind Gulak’s murder won’t go unpunished
President Muhammadu Buhari has said that those behind the murder of Gulak and other incidents across the country will not go scot free.
President Buhari, in a statement issued Sunday by his spokesman, Garba Shehu, expressed outrage and disgust over “the heinous murder”.
The president, who expressed sadness over the incident, said: “I’m repulsed by such premeditated and gruesome murder of Gulak by evil people who are determined to undermine the peace, unity and territorial integrity of our country.
“Let me warn however that nobody or group of people who engages in such despicable acts should expect to go free.
We will deploy all resources at our disposal to ensure that such callous and criminal elements are brought to justice.”
Gulak’s killing unacceptable – Akeredolu
Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu described the news of the assassination as very shocking and disturbing.
In a statement personally signed by the governor, he said this is one murder too many, describing the action as senseless and wicked.
‘‘The perpetrators of this heinous act are enemies of this country.
This contrivance is meant to mislead, confuse and destroy.
It bears the unmistakable, despicable imprints of fifth columnists bent on setting the country on the path of conflagration.
These criminals must not be allowed to succeed.
“We want to use this medium to express our solidarity with our brother, Governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma.
We admonish him and other governors in the South Eastern States to brace up, and confront the current security challenge to put an end to the bloodbath in the land.
The enemies of the people always employ the weapon of fear to create disaffection in the polity.
“This cowardly act is calculated to instigate Nigerians against each other, particularly Northerners, against the Igbo living outside the South East.
We must confront the enemies of the people with a view to neutralising them.
This is definitely not the time for political correctness.
Banditry should not be allowed to subvert the legitimacy of the current government at all levels.
“We call on all security agencies to collaborate with a view to unveiling the criminal elements sponsoring and undertaking terrorist acts.
They must be punished, severely.”
Fintiri mourns
The Governor of Adamawa State, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri described as shocking the gruesome murder of Gulak who was a former Speaker of the Adamawa State House of Assembly.
Governor Fintiri said the death was painful and a reflection of the wickedness of the wicked.
Governor Fintiri described the late Gulak as a witty, determined and practical politician whose rise in life was as a result of sheer hard work.
“It is unfortunate that death has taken from us
The Rt.
Hon Ahmed Gulak in such a gruesome manner.
He was a lively politician who loved and worked with everyone, and always held the interests of the country at heart”.
Recalling his interactions with the late Gulak, Governor Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri said, “He was a brother and a mentor, and a fighter for human rights as a lawyer.
Madagali community has lost a true son”.
In a statement issued yesterday in Yola through his Chief Press Secretary, Hunwashi Wanisoukou, the governor noted that “Our country has lost an astute fighter for human rights.
We all remember how passionate he fought for the plight of those displaced by insurgency and the downtrodden”.
ACF condemns assassination
The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has condemned Gulak’s assassination, describing it as a “monumental loss” to the nation.
The ACF in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Emmanuel Yawe, said it was sad to receive news on the assassination of Ahmed Gulak describing him as a dynamic and progressive politician from the north.
“You liked or hated him that was your business.
He had class.
He had style.
May God bless him and give his family and his state, Adamawa the strength to bear this monumental loss,” it stated.
Assassination part of plans to replicate 1966 coup – CNG
The Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) has described Sunday’s assassination of Ahmed Gulak, a prominent northern leader and former Political Adviser to former President Goodluck Jonathan as coordinated and as well as incessant attacks on police formations in Nigeria’s southeast as part of a wider plan to replicate the coup of 1966.
The CNG in a statement signed by its Spokesperson, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman said it was the reason why the northern part of the country cannot be reasonably expected to live with the south east as a nation alleging that the “violent rascality” by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), the Eastern Security Network (ESN) and other armed Igbo gangs are funded, fully supported and emboldened by every component of the Igbo society at home and in the diaspora.
From Jude Owuamanam (Owerri), Lami Sadiq (Kaduna), Bola Ojuola (Akure), Abdullateef Salau, Muideen Olaniyi, Abbas Jimoh & Idowu Isamotu

Niger Republic’s new president blasts ‘terrorists’ for ‘war crimes’
Niger Republic’s newly-elected president, Mohamed Bazoum, hit out at “terrorist groups whose barbarity has exceeded every limit” after taking the helm Friday of a country struggling with two jihadist insurgencies.
These groups “carry out large-scale massacres of innocent civilians, and in doing so, commit real war crimes,” Bazoum declared.
The leaders of these groups “are from other countries,” he said, adding that Niger was being attacked without any cause.
“No terrorist leader has ever formulated any grievance against our state,” he said.
Bazoum, 61, was elected in a two-round vote in December and February.
He was previously right-hand man to Mahamadou Issoufou, 68, who has voluntarily stepped down after two five-year terms.
His inauguration marks the first handover between elected leaders in Niger’s 60-year post-independence history, but jihadist attacks and an alleged attempted coup have overshadowed ceremonies.
Niger is being hit by insurgents linked to Al-Qaeda or the so-called Islamic State (IS), crossing from Mali and Burkina Faso in the west, and by Boko Haram, crossing from Nigeria in the southeast.
More than 300 people have been killed in three attacks in the west since the start of the year.
In the most recent of these, 141 members of the Tuareg community were massacred on March 21 in Tahoua, a vast desert region abutting Mali.
Bazoum said Niger’s diplomatic efforts under his presidency “will be centred on Mali.”
“The current situation in Mali has a direct impact on domestic security in our country,” he said.
IS-linked insurgents are based in Menaka and Gao, in eastern and central Mali respectively, said Bazoum.
Combatting them “will be very difficult so long as the Malian state does not exercise full sovereignty over these regions,” he said.
In the early hours of Wednesday, after gunfire broke out near the presidency in the capital Niamey, the government announced an “attempted coup” had been thwarted.
It described this as a “cowardly and regressive act which sought to threaten democracy and the state of law”.
The West African nation has suffered four coups in its history, most recently a February 2010 putsch that toppled then-president Mamadou Tandja.
(AFP)

Google threatens to withdraw from Australia
Google has threatened to remove its search engine from Australia over the nation’s attempt to make the tech giant share royalties with news publishers.
Australia is introducing a world-first law to make Google, Facebook and potentially other tech companies pay media outlets for their news content.
But the US firms have fought back, warning the law would make them withdraw some of their services.
Australian PM Scott Morrison said lawmakers would not yield to “threats”.
Though Australia is far from Google’s largest market, the proposed news code is seen as a possible global test case for how governments could seek to regulate big tech firms.
Australia’s code would tie Google and Facebook to mediated negotiations with publishers over the value of news content, if no agreement could be reached first.
Google Australia managing director Mel Silva told a Senate hearing on Friday that the laws were “unworkable”.
“If this version of the code were to become law, it would give us no real choice but to stop making Google Search available in Australia,” she said.
But lawmakers challenged this, accusing Google of “blackmail” and bullying Australia for raising the reform.
“It’s going to go worldwide.
Are you going to pull out of every market, are you?
Is this about stopping the precedence?” asked Senator Rex Patrick.
Silva replied that the code was “an untenable risk for our Australian operations”.
Morrison said his government remained committed to progressing the laws through parliament this year.
“Let me be clear: Australia makes our rules for things you can do in Australia.
That’s done in our parliament,” he told reporters on Friday.
Why is Australia pushing this law?
Google is the dominant search engine in Australia and has been described by the government as a near-essential utility with little market competition.
The government has argued that because the tech platforms gain customers from people who want to read the news, the tech giants should pay newsrooms a “fair” amount for their journalism.
In addition, it has argued that the financial support is needed for its embattled news industry because a strong media is vital to democracy.
Australian print media has seen a 75% decline in advertising revenue since 2005, according to the government.
Google’s threat to remove its entire search product is its most severe yet.
News accounts for just 12.5% of Google searches in Australia, according to lawmakers.

Poultry farmers beg for importation of animal grade maize, soya meals
Dr Olalekan Odunsi, the South-West general-secretary, Poultry Association of Nigeria (PAN), has called on government to facilitate the importation of animal grade maize and soya meals.
Odunsi said the importation would save the poultry industry from collapsing.
He said the urgent importation of animal feed grade of maize would sustain the over 50million layers, 100million broilers, 1million breeders and other classes of poultry until the next harvest season.
He also urged the government, in the interim, to enforce a ban on export of soya, seed and processed soya bean meal.
He enjoined governors in the region to put as much efforts to the cultivation of maize as they had done with rice.
Odunsi stressed the need for a strong collaboration among maize farmers in Nigeria, soya bean farmers and others.
He said acute scarcity and astronomical prices of soya beans and maize would threaten additional five million poultry jobs in the short term if the government does not intervene.
“Today, maize is sold at N210, 000/MT in most states of South-West, soya meal N240, 000/MT.
“Due to the importance of these two items, the price of poultry feed has continuously been on the increase from N2750 to N3000 in April N2020 to N4850 to N5300 now.
In December, most farmers were unable to sell their broilers because the cost of production was higher than what an average Nigerian could afford.
Presently, egg is going out of the reach of an average family with ideal price at N1, 300.
So we really need government’s intervention to save the current 10million jobs in the poultry value chain of our economy,’’
he said (NAN).

Pro-Buhari rep suspended from APC
The All Progressives Congress (APC) has suspended a member of the House of Representatives representing Kazaure Federal Constituency in Jigawa State, Muhammad Gudaji Danbaffa for six months.
In addition, a seven-member investigative panel has been constituted to probe the allegation of insubordination against the lawmaker and make its recommendations within 10 days.
The committee is headed by Hamza Dand with Sanusi Kazaure as Secretary.
In the letter suspending the lawmaker, the local government chairman of the party, Hassan Lawal, claimed that the decision to suspend Gudaji was initiated by his Kazaure Yamma ward and endorsed by the local government chapter of the party.
Our correspondent reports that the lawmaker was accused of criticising the governor for allegedly subverting the peoples’ will in the choice of candidates for the chairmanship and councillorship in the recently conducted party primaries in the state.

Serena sails past teenager Pigato in Parma WTA
Serena Williams brushed aside the challenge of local teenager Lisa Pigato in the opening round of the WTA tournament in Parma on Monday.
Williams, ranked eighth in the world, beat the 572nd-ranked Pigato, making her WTA debut, 6-3, 6-2 in the first meeting between the two players.
The 39-year-old American had been given a wild card to play in Parma after her premature exit from the Italian Open, where she crashed out in the second round in what was her first match in nearly three months since her semifinal defeat in the Australian Open.

How North-Central govs can optimize open grazing ban in South – APC leader
As open grazing controversy trends in the public domain, with Southern governors slamming a ban on it during their meeting in Asaba, the president, Farmers Empowerment Association in Nigeria (FEAN), and Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC) North-Central Forum in FCT, Honourable Obaje David, examines how the North-Central governors could respond to the ban.
Recently, the Southern states governors met in Asaba, Delta State, and banned open grazing to stem farmers-herders crisis and other forms of criminalities.
What is your take on the heated controversy generated by this decision?
Every human being has right to actions and  opinions.
But the most important thing is that once you take your action, you should be aware of the consequences.
You should be able to consider the advantages and disadvantages.
I am not one of those that say it is good or bad.
As a Nigerian, you have the right and liberty to live anywhere in the country in good faith and enjoy the freedom of association.
On  this basis, I will not say that it is a good thing.
But as a leader in the North Central, I will say that it is a good thing, especially for the North Central Zone, due to the potential economic benefits for us and the nation.
The ban is an advantage for us.
We need to tap into it and see how we can make it a real venture and make money from it.
Luckily for us, we have a landmass that is enough to accommodate the herders, no matter the number that may troop from the South into the North Central.
What then is your position on open grazing?
I am not one of the propagators of open grazing.
I believe more in ranching, which I practise as an individual.
I believe that if we take to ranching, it  will work out for us.
The North Central governors should accommodate the national programme on ranching.
Such move could make the North Central a cattle hub where people could always have access to cattle and all the allied products
and then it becomes a means of economic empowerment for the North Central people.
We have the land, which the southern states may not have.
Look at Kogi, Niger, Kwara and others.
We can conveniently accommodate the herders and ranching policy to our advantage.
The challenges that the Fulani herders pose are not because they don’t want to adopt ranching.
The problem is that they are not being educated on its advantages.
They have a nomadic culture.
As a result, they have to be well educated to embrace ranching.
We can also adopt the Kenya method, where nearly all the families have ranches and you don’t see open grazing despite the large number of the cattle they have.
But that is what the southern governors were making case for?
The governors were not categorical in this regard.
They were not calling for ranching and for the federal government to come in.
What they were simply saying was that the herders have become problems to us and should go away.
They said the herders should apply for land with a claim that herding is a private business.
But have they asked their indigenes to apply for land like the herders?
As one of those involved in youth empowerment programmes, especially in the agricultural sector  and its value chains, why are some government policies failing to realise their objectives and what is the way out?
Firstly, there is no administration that has been able to touch the lives of individuals like President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration whereby you can conveniently sit in your house and apply for facilities and you get them.
There is also the targeted credit facility which is also known as COVID-19 loan.
Many Nigerians have conveniently gotten the loan in hundreds of thousands of naira from the comfort of their homes without even going to offices.
Also, with SMEs being expanded such as the Bank of Industry (BOI), Bank of Agriculture (BOA) and others.
The challenge is that we have two sides of those that would believe in you and those that would criticise you.
So, for those who don’t believe in Buhari’s administration, there is nothing beneficial.
But for us that believe in Buhari, we are benefiting and we thank God for it.

Kidnappers kill driver, abduct 13 in Nasarawa
Kidnappers have shot dead a driver, Adamu Usman, and abducted 13 passengers near Shafa-Abakpa -Umaisha road in Toto Local Government Council of Nasarawa State.
Daily Trust learnt that the deceased who was shot three times on his abdomen died at about 9pm at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital in Gwagwalada where he and one other driver, Attahiru Abukwo, who was also shot, were receiving treatment.
A driver who narrowly escaped the attack, Ibrahim Saidu, said the incident happened around 5pm on Tuesday when the kidnappers in their large number, wielding AK-47 rifles, emerged from the bush to lay ambush on four vehicles coming from Ugya village.
According to him, the kidnappers laid ambush and opened fire on the vehicles that were conveying passengers from Ugya to Abaji.
He said the kidnappers immediately surrounded the vehicles after the drivers lost control and skidded to a halt in the bush.
“They whisked away 13 passengers including a middle-aged woman into the bush at gunpoint.
“In fact, I was driving behind the four vehicles in front of me, but it was God that saved me when I stopped at one of the villages to pick a passenger.
As I was coming, I heard gunshots and immediately made a U-turn,” he said.
The Ohimegye of Opanda-Umaisha, His Royal Majesty (HRM), Usman Abdullahi, said some remnants of bandits inside a forest along the axis have been responsible for kidnapping of travellers, residents as well as farmers in the area.
“There are some remnants of these bandits that are still terrorising our people along this axis, so I am appealing to the state government to collaborate with the federal government to see how the bandits can be flushed out completely,” he said.
When contacted, the spokesman of the Nasarawa State police command, ASP Ramhan Nansel, said he was yet to be briefed on the latest kidnap incident, adding that he would reach out to the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Toto Local Government to get details about it and get back to our reporter.

Man arrested for allegedly driving against traffic in Lagos
The Lagos State Police Command has confirmed the arrest of one Victor Ebhomenyen for allegedly driving against traffic at Four Point Hotel, Oniru in Lagos State.
Ebhomenyen was alleged to have also assaulted and caused  severe bodily injuries on ASP Erhator Sunday at Four Point Hotel, Oniru, Lagos.
This is contained in a statement signed by the  Lagos Police Command’s Spokesperson, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi.
He said that the command deemed it necessary to react and set the record straight regarding
the incident that was captured in a video that went viral on the social media on Saturday April 17.
He said two men assaulted ASP Erhator Sunday, an officer on duty, and created a scene on the road at Oniru, Victoria Island, Lagos State.
Adejobi said that  the prime suspect, Victor, was  in police custody at the State Criminal Investigation Department Panti, for investigation and prosecution as and when due.
He added that the command was making efforts to arrest his fleeing accomplice, Etinosa.
(NAN)

Gbajabiamila welcomes Ayade’s defection as PDP urges members to stay united
The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila, has expressed joy over the defection of the Governor of Cross River State, Prof. Ben Ayade, to the All Progressives Congress (APC), saying the party is opened to all.
Gbajabiamila in a statement on Thursday by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, said Ayade’s action has once again shown that “APC was the party to beat in the country.”
The Speaker said the Cross River State governor has taken the right decision and shown a good example for others to follow.
He said the ruling party remains open to all, calling on well-meaning Nigerians to join the APC to move the country forward.
The Speaker noted that APC will continue to be just and fair to all its members.
Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), while reacting to Ayade’s defection, urged its members in Cross River State stay united.
In a statement by the spokesman of the Party, Kola Ologbondiyan said, “Our party calls on all critical stakeholders and teeming members of our party in Cross Rivers State to immediately pull together and ensure that all structure of our party in the state remain intact.
“The PDP wishes Governor Ayade well in his new political sojourn as well as in his future endeavours.”

Passage of forensic Bill by National Assembly: Its relevance to Buhari’s fight against corruption
The National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on Wednesday 19th
May 2021 at the House of Representatives and Tuesday 2nd
March 2021 at the Senate made history by passing into law, the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Professionals of Nigeria Bill, 2021 (SB.615 and HB.
791), after it was read for the Third Time in both Chambers (SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVE).
This act is a clear demonstration of the National Assembly’s patriotism and direct response, targeted at strengthening and re-invigorating national frontiers in the fight against fraud, corruption and cybercrimes, which has eaten deep into the fabric of our nation.
With the passage of this Bill, the 9th Assembly under the distinguished and able leadership of His Excellency, Senator Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan, PhD, CON and Rt Hon Femi Gbajabiala have shown clearly, its ardent resolve to carry out its legislative functions in line with the provision of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999, as amended.
And this also attests to the fact that the National Assembly is alive to the performance of its complementary role(s) with other arms of Government in the fight against corruption.
It is with great delight and a deep sense of gratitude that I write this, which has been put together as a platform for us to let Nigerians and indeed the whole world know what the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Professionals of Nigeria is all about and the unique concept we are bringing on board in order to complement national efforts in its quest to ride the country of corruption, fraud and Cyber-Crimes and other related crimes.
First and foremost, I wish to profoundly thank the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, under the distinguished and dynamic leadership of His Excellency, Senator Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan, Ph.D, CON, the President of the Senate, for magnanimously passing the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Professionals of Nigeria Bill, 2021 on Tuesday 2nd March, 2021.
After the passage of this Bill by the Senate, and in view of the fact that we operate a bi-cameral Legislature, the ever-ready and resilient House of Representatives, under the able leadership of His Excellency, Rt.
Hon.
Femi Gbajabiamila, the Hon.
Speaker, followed suit and passed the Bill on Wednesday 19th May, 2021.
As you may well be aware, the Bill to establish the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Professionals of Nigeria (CIFIPN) has been one of the most viciously attacked and antagonised bill in the National Assembly in recent times.
Sadly the attacks came from those who ought to be partners in progress in the fight against endemic corruption in Nigeria, but have rather designated themselves as enemies of the general good.
Good is good it has no substitute so also is bad.
No matter how long it takes, good always prevails over bad just as the superiority of light over darkness remain constant and unquestionable
so has the Bill to establish the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Professionals of Nigeria (CIFIPN) prevailed over its antagonists and today the both Chambers of the National Assembly has passed the bill into law.
It is indeed important for us to have a glimpse of how it all happened at the National Assembly.
Interestingly, The Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Professionals of Nigeria (Est) Bill 2021 (CIFIPN) was first passed into law by the 9th Senate on the 2nd day of March, 2021 having undergone the rigour of legislative processes of 1st Reading, 2nd Reading and eventual at its 3rd Reading on the 2nd March, 2021 the bill was unanimously passed into law by the Nigeria Senate having deeply considered the urgent need for this noble legislation, of course this was not without series of thunder bolts from detractors who would not stop at any length to see that any legislation that would be helpful in assisting the Buhari-led administration to fight corruption does not see the light of the day but the senate stood firm and saw it through.
It is very important for the public to know that (CIFIPN) is not just a noble body but a novel one in Nigeria that is targeted at bridging the gap that has long been existing in the forensics space.
Today, the journey to having a standard body that would regulate the practice of forensics in Nigeria is at its peak and Nigerians must rise to challenge the few anti-government bodies that would want to sabotage this step.
The passage of this Bill by the National Assembly, no doubt, is a clear demonstration of its patriotic zeal and the need to further strengthen all national efforts geared towards the fight against corruption, which has hindered development in every aspect of our national lives.
This legislative bold step, taken by the two Chambers of the National Assembly, is quite historic and symbolic, coming at a time that Nigeria is in dire need of legislation(s)
that will give more bite to its anti-corruption drive in view of the raising spate of criminal and corrupt practices, across the globe.
As we all know, crime generally, has assumed a new dimension, due to advancement in science and technology in the 21st Century.
Therefore, the passage of this Bill is apt and timely and it has shown clearly that we have flexible and responsive Legislature that is in tune and in touch with emerging global realities and ever-ready to enact legislations that will meet the yearnings and aspirations of Nigerians.
It is apposite to also state that the journey, which culminated into the passage of this Bill, began in the 8th National Assembly whereby, our Bill was sponsored by Distinguished Senator Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan, Ph.D, CON, the current President of Senate when he was a Senate Leader, because of its strategic importance to the anti-corruption drive of this administration.
For the benefit of hindsight, when our Bill was introduced in the two Chambers during the 8th National Assembly, all-inclusive public hearings were conducted by the relevant Committees of the respective Chambers.
Thereafter and in spite of opposition from stakeholders who were in the minority, led by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), the National Assembly passed the Bill, in view of its significance and the part it will play in the fight against corruption.
Afterward, the Bill was forwarded to Mr President for Presidential Assent, which was not given before the Dissolution of the 8th National Assembly in June, 2019.
It is on the strength of this, that the Bill was re-introduced in this 9th National Assembly and this time around, it was sponsored by Distinguished Senator Abdullahi A. Yahaya, the current Leader of the Senate, in view of the importance attached to it.
We are constrained to make this clarification in order to clear the air on the cheap propaganda being propelled by our detractors that our Bill was rejected by the 8th National Assembly.
Also worthy of mention is the fact that our Bill has being mistaken for similar Bills, which were recently introduced in both the Senate and the House of Representatives’ Chambers.
These Bills, upon our close scrutiny, we discovered that they are merely duplications of the intents and purports of our Bill.
It must be stressed that none of these Bills were introduced in the 8th National Assembly, other than our Bill.
As such, we are the first to ever come up with a Bill of this magnitude,(Forensic)
having seen the urgent need to establish such great Institute.
The decision to establish the Institute was taken after a painstaking study of how the Institutes operate in other jurisdictions and how well they have helped in crime detection, investigation and prosecution.
It is instructive to note that our Institute has been in existence since 2009.
And over the years, we have trained professionals in the field of forensic science and technology, targeted at inculcating the requisite skills and acumen in the pragmatic areas of forensic investigation and management, to wit:
forensic analysis to eliminate material misstatement, whether caused by error or fraud; voice recognition analysis; fingerprint/signature analysis; digital forensic and cybersecurity; crime scene investigation; global anti-corruption compliance and enforcement; litigation support, forensic investigation capacities, preparation of forensic reports, fraud risk management, corporate fraud analysis, fraud prevention, detection and investigation, etc.
You will agree with me that in today’s world, the conventional ways of investigating crimes, with a view to fighting it has become obsolete.
As such, for us as a nation to do something meaningful in this regard, it is paramount that we align ourselves with the global trend and emerging innovations, targeted at fighting corruption.
It is in line with this reasoning that the idea of establishing this Institute was conceived with a well-structure laudable objectives that are relevant to the anti-corruption drive of this administration.
Time will not permit me to highlight all the objectives of the Bill here.
However, I wish to crave your indulgence to highlight a few of the objectives of the Bill, for the purpose of this address, as follows: 
1.
To establish a Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Professionals in Nigeria in order to develop and train Professionals in this specialized field, through systemic and professional examination and certification that will enhance the acquisition of the requisite skills in the use of science and technology for fraud detection, investigation and prevention; 
2.
To provide a platform for training and re-training of intending professionals in the usage of Forensic Science and technological tools and techniques in the investigation of frauds in both public and private sectors of our economy, in line with international best practices; 
3.
To promote high professional standards, ethics and etiquettes amongst practitioners in the field, in a bid to stem fraudulent and corruption practices, and as well develop a mechanism for fraud prevention, as a proactive measure against corruption generally; 
4.
To fill the existing huge vacuum in our archaic and conventional system of investigation with the introduction of a unique operation of forensic science to help the country from expending its scarce foreign exchange to hire foreign expatriates to do forensic investigations in Nigeria; 
5.
To develop a broad-based mechanism and training programmes that cut across all the strata of our investigation architecture, involving professionals such as Lawyers, Criminologists, Security Experts, Judicial Officers, Court Registrars, and Economists.
This would enhance effective and efficient disposition of cases in line with global best practices; and 
6.
To enhance Nigeria’s anti-fraud mechanisms, through the provision of a legal framework for the professional development and discipline of forensic and investigative professionals in Nigeria, among others.
From the foregoing, it is apparent that the role of this Institute is quite strategic and important.
It is also pertinent to reiterate that forensic science is a very wide and all-encompassing field, which requires effective and efficient regulation for the attainment and sustainability of high level professionalism and ethical standards.
The broad spectrum of the scope and focal point of the Institute, includes but not limited to – forensic toxicology; forensic investigation; forensic auditing; digital forensics and cybercrimes, forensic autopsy; forensic law; forensic accounting; forensic nursing; forensic pathology; forensic engineering; forensic psychology; forensic DNA analysis; forensic anthropology; forensic linguistics; forensic deontology; forensic dentistry; forensic archeology; forensic graphology, forensic entomology, etc.
Accordingly, you will agree with me that our Institute is bringing on board, a unique concept of crime detection and investigation in conformity with international best practices.
This concept is far beyond the reasoning of those whose myopic view about the purports of our Bill have beclouded their senses of reasoning, due to narrow-mindedness and inordinate desire to monopolise a system, which is outside their jurisdiction and scope of operations.
On a lighter note, I wish to draw the attention of everyone to the funny scenario that is playing out now, and as a matter of fact, it should be a source of concern for all well-meaning Nigerians.
When the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Professionals of Nigeria Bill was introduced in the 8th National Assembly, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), came out vehemently to oppose its passage because according to them, it is an unnecessary duplication of functions already undertaken by their Institute.
However, upon the re-introduction of our Bill in this 9th National Assembly, and having seen the overwhelming and accelerated legislative supports, our Bill has received from the two Chambers, ICAN has now realized that forensic science is a unique field of practice, and as we speak, they have introduced a similar Bill that is currently before the House of Representatives, having failed woefully in their attempts to stop the passage of our Bill.
One may ask, what has changed between now and the past, where ICAN holds the view that there shouldn’t be any Institute other than theirs to regulate the practice of forensic science?
your answer is as good as mine.
I wish to also inform you that the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN), is not left out of this funny theatrical episode.
Just like their ICAN counterpart, they have also introduced a Bill in the House of Representatives with the nomenclature “the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Certified Fraud Examiners of Nigeria Bill”, which was initiated and being promoted by ANAN.
I decided to bring out all these facts so that Nigerians and even the international communities will understand the extent to which some people can go in order to achieve their aims.
However, we are not perturbed by these developments because we believe in the credibility and ability of the National Assembly and indeed the Presidency to do what is right and not to allow themselves to be manipulated in any way, by these unnecessary distractions, so as not to make a mockery of the entire thing.
The known practical and antagonist of this Bill has remained ICAN for reason that is now becoming obvious.
They engaged several bystanders into writing frivolous petitions some even targeted at the leadership of the Senate with a tone of blackmail.
Having failed woefully at the senate, the antagonists shifted their attention to the House of Representatives with the same bystanders writing all manner of publication.
Yet again, they failed.
Ordinarily by legislative procedure, a bill that has been passed by the Senate would only require concurrence by the House safe for where there are observations.
But in the case of the CIFIPN Bill, the antagonist fought the passage of the bill until truth prevail and on the 19th May, 2021 the Bill for the establishment of the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Professionals of Nigeria for Effective Regulation, Registration of Members and Determination of what Standard Knowledge and Skills to be Attained by Persons seeking to become Registered Members and Qualify to Practice as Forensic and Investigative Professionals; and for Related Matters (HB. 791) was passed into law by the House of Representative.
ICAN has now registered its Bill in the House of Representatives titled (REPEALING AND RE-ENACTMENT OF ICAN’S ACT.
This ICAN new Bill has in it full of provision for practice of forensic, and also that they will establish a Forensic University in Nigeria and without which nobody can practice forensic in Nigeria, and violation of this section will lead such a person to some years imprisonment.
This sounds so strange in a country full of enlightened people.
My joy is that Nigeria is not a Banana Republic
no matter the level of corruption therein.
We are already challenging the passage of the bills by the House of Representatives.
It should be noted that, our challenging the bill is not borne out of malice or ill will, but because we are certain that the purpose of this bill is to halt presidential assent under the guise of “existence of similar legislation”.
We will not allow ourselves and Nigerians to be deceived by their antics.
You would recall how ICAN vehemently opposed this enactment of CIFIPN and in one of its sponsored publications by the Association of professional Bodies of Nigeria led by Engr.(Chief)
Olumuyiwa Alade on the 24th May, 2019 made frantic efforts to say that ICAN under its enabling laws is empowered to practice Forensics and therefore for CIFIPN Bill to be passed it would amount to duplication of laws, today ICAN is presenting its ACT to be repealed and re-enacted with the inclusion of Forensics in the new law.
The question is, what has changed?
The same law that ICAN has always told the public that it has forensics is now seeking for its re-enactment.
As always, while we are not opposed to any group proposing the inclusion of forensics in its laws, we are however concerned that a body should not try to perpetuate itself.
ICAN and its cohorts have realised their inability to stop the passage of CIFIPN
so they want to have a body within itself.
What they are scared of is checks and balances, they would not want another professional body to investigate their activities because they know what they are doing to the economy of this nation.
How can they want to be a judge in their own case?
This sounds so strange.
On this note, we are calling on the National Assembly to beware of the antics of these groups, they cannot be speaking from both sides of their mouth and expect the National Assembly to be cajoled.
We want to yet again appreciate the doggedness of the 9th Assembly in ensuring that the Bill is passed, the Nigerian people are more than ever before convinced of the readiness of this administration to combat corruption through every possible means and would at all times encourage legislation that is aimed at achieving this goal.
We are confident that His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari will not hesitate in assenting to this Bill as soon as it gets to his desk.
We are calling on all Nigerians to come and be part of the Forensics Profession.
The profession is open for all professionals in various field of endeavours.
There is a training arm of the institute that will studiously guide you and equip you.
I wish to thank you all and to also reiterate our resolve and commitment to upholding ethical standards in line with global best practices, in rendering our professional services and trainings that would bring about innovative ways of fighting corruption and financial crimes, generally.
I wish to appeal to all stakeholders and well-meaning Nigerians to support this noble course and to implore us all to make frantic efforts so that collectively, we can surmount the menace of corruption, the plethora of security challenges, across the country and other associated crises.
Dr (Mrs) Enape Victoria Ayishetu, PhD, Pro-tem President, (CIFIPN) www.cifipn.org

Air Peace conducts test flights with new E195-E2 Aircraft
Air Peace has commenced test flights for its two brand new Embraer 195-E2 aircraft in preparation for deployment into service.
Daily Trust reports that the two aircraft were the first set of the 13 brand new 195-E2 aircraft acquired by the airline to deepen its route expansion.
A spokesperson for the airline, Stanley Olisa, told newsmen on Friday that one of the aircraft was flown empty from Lagos to Owerri, Abuja, and Port Harcourt for familiarisation on Thursday.
Olisa hinted that test flights to other destinations would continue, adding that in no time, the planes would commence scheduled flights, offering a superior travel experience to customers.
He disclosed that
the third brand new E195-E2 aircraft would be coming in very soon,  stating that the airline’s fleet expansion is driven by the commitment to satisfy the air travel needs of Nigerians.
The operation of test flights by newly acquired aircraft is a regulatory requirement that must be met before the aircraft is deployed for regular scheduled operations.
It would be recalled that Air Peace took delivery of the two brand new ultramodern 124 seat capacity Embraer 195-E2 aircraft in January and March this year, with 11 more slated for delivery.

Tela Maize harvest shows potential for 8 tons per hectare
Last Tuesday, the Institute for Agricultural Research (IAR), Ahmadu Bello University Zaria, invited relevant stakeholders, including journalists, to witness third harvest of the Tela Maize variety Confined Field Trials (CFT) under its Tela Maize Research Project funded by the Africa Agricultural Technology Foundation (AATF).
The maize variety derived its name “TELA” from the Latin word “TUTELA” which means ‘protection’.
The maize variety is bred with protection against insect pests and draught.
The Principal Investigator, Professor Rabiu Adamu and other scientists who conducted journalists round the harvest, said the idea of the research work was to produce maize varieties that are resistance or that are highly protected against two major insect pests: stalk (stem) borers and Fall Army Worm and additional protection against moderate draught.
“This is all about producing crops that are high yielding under stressed conditions; the stresses are Fall Army Warm and stem borers, which are major constraints to maize production.
If not controlled, it could cause up to 80 percent yield lost; and draught – if you don’t manage moisture (rain) deficit very well, you may not get any yield.
“We have done this trial for the third time.
We did the first trial under the dry season in March, and during the rainy season, we conducted another one from June to November.
This is the third trial from November to April.
The trial is composed of three major trials: the transgenic or biotechnology hybrids or materials that were resistance to stalk (stem) borers and Fall Army Worm.
“The second trail is about those materials we’re evaluating that would do well in the presence of draught while the last one is under optimum – that is, even if you have draught and insect pests, if you try to manage them, how would the yield of those maize varieties and hybrid you’re trying to produce look like.
So, in essence, this is what we are trying to showcase,” the Principal researcher said.
With the three CFT trials successful, researchers will have to test and validate them from the farmers’ field to show that what they recorded from their own research station equally performs well in the farmers’ fields on wide range of locations over wide ecological conditions, beginning from 2021 rainy season.
By the end of 2022, if all things work fine, Nigerian farmers would expect these hybrids to be with them.
Dr. Muhyideen Ayekunle, a maize breeder under the project, said from the last two trials conducted, the transgenic variety recorded yield advantage of 17 percent over non- BT despite heavy infestation.
The varieties under trials were infested three times unlike the previous ones to virtually look at the efficacy of the BT gene in the maize product.
With the outcome, researchers said the yield will definitely increase above 17 per cent.
“So after, we’re going to analyze the data and then prepare a document to get approval for environmental release.
We’re going to submit the dossiers to the National Biosafety Management Agency (NBMA) and it will be reviewed.
Once we get approval that these products, we can come out of the confinement
and then we can have a national performing trial.
The Director General/CEO of the National Biotechnology Development Agency (NBDA), Professor Abdullahi Mustapha, at the event, called on the scientists to continue to search for ‘abiotic and biotic’ solutions to the challenges facing farmers in the country.
“We have tested technologies capable of providing solutions to problems that farmers face, let us take advantage of it and move forward,” he said.
Dr Rose Maxwell Gidado, the Country Coordinator OFAB Nigeria, said the impact was actually going to be much.
“Farmers are going to have yield increase of 17 percent and you know that farming is all about productivity and harvestable yield.
Once you have yield, of cause you’re going to have bumper harvest and profit.”
She said by the time these maize varieties are ready to get to the farmers, it will increase their livelihood, money and then the price of maize would come down.
The Tela Maize project is a public-private partnership that is working towards initiating commercialization of transgenic draught-tolerant and insect-protected maize varieties to enhance food security in seven Sub-Saharan African countries: South Africa, Nigeria, Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda, Mozambique and Tanzania.

Manchester United fight back in win at Aston Villa
Manchester United fought back to beat Aston Villa 3-1 away in the Premier League on Sunday as Bruno Fernandes, Mason Greenwood and Edinson Cavani scored in the second half to put on hold the title celebrations of champions-elect Manchester City.
The result left United second on 70 points from 34 games, 10 behind City who have played a game more and missed a chance to secure the title on Saturday after they suffered a 2-1 home defeat by Chelsea.
Bertrand Traore fired Villa ahead in the 24th minute with a brilliant strike into the top corner from 15 metres after some sloppy defending by the visitors, who gave the ball away several times deep in their own half.
Fernandes equalised with a 52nd-minute penalty, sending Villa goalkeeper Emiliano Martinez the wrong way with a coolly taken spot-kick after a series of clumsy challenges by Douglas Luiz sent Paul Pogba tumbling over.
Greenwood turned the match on its head four minutes later with a neat shot on the turn from inside the penalty area after he shook off Villa centre back Tyrone Mings.
Substitute Edinson Cavani sealed United’s victory with a glancing 87th-minute header.

After Daily Trust story, NCC bans sale, use of mobile phone boosters
The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has banned the sale and use of GSM network boosters (for mobile connectivity) especially by banks, residents, government agencies, among others to improve telecommunications services.
The Commission gave the 14-day Pre-Enforcement Notice on Tuesday, signed by the Director Public affairs, Ikechukwu Adinde.
It said the warning is effective from Tuesday and on expiration of the deadline, NCC said it will begin enforcement actions against defaulters.
This is coming less than one month after Daily Trust on April 24, 2021 reported that business owners in the Sabon Gari market in Kano and other business areas said they buy boosters to improve the reception of the poor telecommunication networks in their areas.
Some of the traders said the reception is poor as the telecommunications service providers do not do much to improve services in spite of the gains they make from such places.
According to them, more traders and their customers engage in digital and online financial transactions (data-based cashless services) and other telecommunication-based services while facing poor call/data services.
NCC in the notice said, “the sale, installation and usage of GSM boosters are illegal.”
In the notice, NCC said it was only exercising its mandate of ensuring the protection of consumers, ensuring good quality of service and maintenance of technical standards of communication equipment, and in accordance with the provisions of Section 131 (1) of the Nigerian Communications Act (NCA) 2003.
“Such acts may lead to monetary sanction and/or imprisonment, or both (fine & imprisonment) as well as the confiscation of any equipment used in the illegal enhancement of network coverage.”

LG polls: Protests over ‘imposition’ of APC candidates
Some members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State have staged a protest against the party’s adoption of consensus candidature in some local government areas ahead of the July 24, local government elections in the state.
The top echelon of the party had announced that the party would adopt consensus candidates in some local government areas while direct or indirect primary polls would be conducted for the emergence of candidates in some.
The protesters who stormed the secretariat of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Ogun State, accused some leaders of the APC in Abeokuta South LGA of imposing a chairmanship candidate on them.
They carried placards with various inscriptions such as “We Say No To Money Bags
In Abeokuta South” and
“Let Party Members Pick Who They Want”, and said their preferred aspirant was Farouk Akintunde.
One of the party leaders who led the protest, Balogun Ololade, urged Gov Dapo Abiodun to intervene in the matter “to save democracy from jeopardy.”

Between DSS and regional separatists
Repeated warnings by the DSS to “persons and groups” whose utterances and activities persistently constitute provocative disruptions of the ethno-religious environment and threaten harmonious co-existence of the majority common folks of this country, were beginning to sound monotonous and unconvincing until “guilty conscience” forced the prime suspects out of their deceptive demeanour.
Lingering questions about “who” or “which” persons and groups the security agency was referring to were promptly vapourized in the heated rhetorical outbursts of the nation’s prominent geo-ethnic agitators –
Afenifere, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Northern Elders Forum (NEF)and Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF).
It then dawned on all that indeed these were the “persons and groups”  that have “continued to resort to inciting, unguarded and divisive statements, and acts to pit citizens against one another in order to apparently inflame the embers of tribal and religious discord,” as the DSS charged in one of its warnings.
Interestingly, none of these prime suspects in the exploitation of “some fault lines to cause ethno-religious violence in some parts of the country” could categorically distance itself from the treacherous and subversive activities detected by the security agency.
They chorused a common conviction that the DSS “knows” those responsible, differing only in the respective directions of their accusing fingers.
While Afenifere retorted “these people know those who are responsible for these acts but can’t touch them because of their connections”, PANDEV rehashed its grouse about “many people feeling alienated” and ACF feigned ignorance, asking “who are the people?
Since the DSS knows them and their satanic mission, they should be proactive in dealing with them.”
The NEF sounded unconvinced with “if there are people pushing the country into deeper crises and they are known; they should be treated according to the law.”
You don’t have to be a spook to know what the DSS knows about each and all of these flag bearers of geo-ethnic politics in Nigeria or to understand why they all “know” that DSS knows them yet they insist on passing the buck outside their cliques.
The truth is that these champions of ethnic politics know of no better solution to Nigeria’s myriad problems than for their sectional enclaves and chiefs to lord it over the rest of the country as rulers, not leaders!
So desperate and unscrupulous are they in pursuing their inordinate ambitions that they absurdly and frequently agitate for “break-up” of Nigeria.
Ambition-powered mind games intoxicate their geographical consciousness to reduce all it takes to excising the territorial contours of their enclaves with the frenzied ease of cutting their portion of the remaining crumbs of the proverbial national cake.
But, for the land-locked ACF/NEF agitators and their Afenifere antagonists, the only way out of a broken up Nigeria is to cascade down a mega sink hole, if their myopic manoeuvres are not to lead to a suicidal breaking into neighbouring Benin and Niger republics, currently hosting herds of gunmen, turbaned terrorists  and ISWAP insurgents on border patrol.
The Ohanaeze and Pan Niger Delta chieftains’ historical incompatibility remains a contemporary political conundrum posing even more treacherous logistic challenges to breaking up, either collectively or severally, none of which can compare or compete with the militant ambitions of Biafran belligerents or entrenched mangrove swamp marauders as deadly deterrents to any empire building plots in the area.
Simply put, breaking up or out of Nigeria as an ultimate political panacea or consolatory opportunity to achieve inordinate ambitions of persons or groups restlessly undermining aspirations of majority wa-zo-bia Nigerian commoners for enduring peaceful coexistence, is easier said than done.
These regional groups actually constitute major hindrances to the steady attainment of unity and peaceful coexistence that Nigeria has been labouring for since flag independence.
For as long as they continue to parade the political terrain as ethnic champions, for so long will they regard Nigeria as an entitlement for their ethnic stake in the population, to be claimed or seized and, if all else fails, deconstructed and disowned as a “failed state.”
Whenever they meet, the agenda is not for Nigeria’s progress and development, unless its leadership is firmly in their grasp, otherwise it is all about heckling and jostling around with barely concealed determination to deploy the notorious Nigerian Ph.d, pull-him-down syndrome against the incumbent “non-indigene” President.
Whether it is ACF, Afenifere, Ohanaeze, PANDEV or Northern Elders Forum, their existence and activities will always be antithetical to Nigeria’s quest for unity, peace and development.
Another undeniable indictment of these regional separatists is that they are all self-styled political pressure groups masquerading as representatives of various ethnic groups.
From their membership, it is plain to see that they consist of ex-this
-ex-that and motley groups of their hangers-on and other political prospectors who share the handicap of lacking genuine and verifiable mandate of those they claim to be “fighting” for.
Ironically, this political deficiency gives them the impetus to come together, desperate to remain relevant in a democratic system run entirely by elected representatives through registered political parties with legislative and executive institutions constitutionally established to dispense good governance and dividends of democracy.
The geo-ethnic groups only have a nasty nuisance value in our democratic setting as they persist in acts of mischief, sabotage, blackmail and subversion, all brazenly intended to “make Nigeria ungovernable” as they often threaten and attempt,  so that, perchance, they can regain political relevance if not control.
That is why their frequent clandestine meetings trigger security alerts!
With such predator-politicians lurking around the perimeters of power with dubious intent of undermining an elected government just because they are not involved, it is beyond reasonable doubt that there must be a convergence of interest linking their overt activities and the covert criminalities of kidnappers, insurgents, armed robbers, bandits and allied terrorists, combined to make Nigeria ungovernable.
Double jeopardy aptly describes the predicament of the Buhari administration having to contend with such array of formidable foes unleashing incessant assaults on national security in a time of unprecedented economic adversity.
To that extent, there can only be two groups of politicians: those who are positively participating in the democratic dispensation as partners in moving the nation forward against all odds and those who are negatively engaged in sowing seeds of discord and disorder to destabilize the country.
By their utterances and activities, we all know them!
At the end of the day, the majority of Nigerians are ordinary citizens whose conditions of survival were not determined by and not dependent on the geography of their origin.
Their daily struggles to eke a living are sustained by submission to the will of One God irrespective of differences of faith.
Nigeria is their destined fatherland to which they remain loyal, law abiding and prayerful, knowing they have no other country to call theirs, collectively showing how citizenship breeds true patriotism.
They too know that Afenifere, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Northern Elders Forum (NEF) and Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) resort to inciting, unguarded and divisive statements and activities to pit citizens against one another in order to inflame the embers of tribal and religious discord for the political ambitions of their leaders.
Hence the poor man’s prayer remains:
GOD DEY,
NIGERIA GO BETTER!
Manzo Reuben is a youth leader in Lokoja

10 killed as terrorists attempt to attack army formation
Troops of the Nigerian Army, on Saturday, neutralised not less than 10 members of Boko Haram terrorists who attempted to launch an attack on troops of ‘Operation Hadin Kai in Rann’, the headquarters of Kala Balge Local Government Area of Borno State.
This is coming barely 24 hours after the newly appointed Chief of Army Staff, Maj.-Gen.
Farouk Yahaya, assumed leadership of the Nigerian Army.
The spokesman of the Nigerian Army, Brig.-Gen.
Mohammed Yerima, in a statement made available, explained that the terrorists, who came in their numbers, mounted on gun trucks and attempted to infiltrate the main entrance to the town.
Yerima said, ”The highly spirited troops were right on hand to counter the move and inflicted a humiliating defeat on the terrorists who abandoned their evil mission and took to their heels.
”The troops chased the retreating terrorist and ensured there was no further threat to the town and its residents.
“Troops successfully destroyed one of the gun trucks and recovered multiple weapons including one anti-aircraft gun, two machine guns and eight AK-47 rifles neutralising ten terrorists in the process.”
Daily Trust reports that the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor, had on Friday charged the new COAS to ensure he built on late Attahiru’s legacy by defeating enemies terrorising the Northeast and other regions of the country.

Second U.S. congresswoman tests positive for COVID-19 after Capitol unrest
Pramila Jayapal, a member of the U.S. House of Representatives, said she contracted the Coronavirus (COVID-19) after being locked down in the same room with a number of Republican lawmakers who refused to wear masks during the unrest in the Capitol last week.
“I just received a positive COVID-19 test result after being locked down in a secured room at the Capitol where several Republicans not only cruelly refused to wear a mask but recklessly mocked colleagues and staff who offered them one,” Jayapal said in a post on her official Twitter account.
Earlier on Monday, U.S. Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman said she also contracted COVID-19 following possible exposure during the lockdown in the Capitol on Jan. 6.
Jayapal, who is a member of the Democratic Party, accused the Republican lawmakers of causing a COVID-19 superspreader event and called for punishment against them.
“Any member who refuses to wear a mask should be fully held accountable for endangering our lives because of their selfish idiocy.
“I’m calling for every single member who refuses to wear a mask in the Capitol to be fined and removed from the floor by the Sergeant at Arms,” she said in a post on Twitter.
It is unclear if the two congresswomen were in the same room during the lockdown in the Capitol.
Jayapal decried U.S. President Donald Trump’s failure to contain the COVID-19 pandemic in the U.S. and vowed to do everything in her power to remove him from office.
(Sputnik/NAN)

Man, 30, arraigned over assault on  woman in Edo
The police have arraigned one Gabriel  Fidelis, 30, before an Ogbeson chief magistrates’ court in Benin for allegedly assaulting a woman identified as Rebecca Izevbigie.
The accused was  arraigned on a three-count charge of conspiracy, unlawful assault and malicious damage punishable under sections, 516, 355, and 451 of the Criminal Code.
The prosecutor, Sgt.
Kehinde  Iyare, told the court that  the accused conspired with others at large to commit the offence on April  11, at Estate Quarters, along Benin-Agbor Road, Benin City.
She further told the court that the accused, with others now at large, unlawfully assaulted one Rebecca Izevbigie by hitting and biting her.
She added that the accused also used iron rod to break her leg.
She further told the court that on March 31, 2021 the defendant did  intentionally and maliciously damage one of the complainant’s wash hand basins valued at N8,000.
The accused, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge while his counsel, Mrs  E. E Idahosa, applied for his bail, saying    he would not jump bail.
Thereafter, Chief Magistrate Mutairu Oare, granted the accused bail in the sum of N100,000 with one surety.
He said the surety must deposit two recent passport photographs of himself and that of the defendant with the court.
He ordered  that the Court registrar should verify the information supplied about the surety’s residence and adjourned the case to May 10, for hearing.

Why National Assembly can’t impeach Buhari — Oyo Senator
The Senator representing Oyo North Senatorial District, Fatai Buhari, has said the National Assembly is yet to see a reason to impeach President Muhammadu Buhari.
The senator who stated this when he paid a Sallah visit to a former governor of Oyo State, Rashidi Ladoja, said there is a process for impeaching a president.
Senator Buhari’s submission is coming a day after Senator Yusuf Abubakar Yusuf (APC Taraba) and chairman of senate committee on special duties said impeaching President Buhari would not end insecurity in the country.
There have been calls for President Buhari’s resignation or impeachment following the spate of insecurity in the country.
But Senator Buhari has asked those calling for secession in the country not to create a problem that would not be easily solved.
“Impeaching the president has a process.
Anybody calling for the impeachment of the president should give a genuine reason that warrants the impeachment.
“We are yet to see a reason to impeach the president.
If there is a need, then, we shall table it, discuss it and the two houses must come together.
“Impeaching the president is not what someone will just wake up one day and call for.
There is a procedure for it.
Why do you want to cause a problem and create confusion that you cannot solve?”
he queried.
Speaking on the security challenges bedevilling the country, the lawmaker said; “We have no other country than Nigeria.
Nigeria is our country and our home.
We should try to do internal security.
We should play our own part; we should not leave everything to the government alone.
“There should be local police that will be able to know the terrain.
We know ourselves no matter how it can be.
In the early 80s, we used to travel at night.
But the level of insecurity in the country, something fundamental is missing.”
He disclosed that the 9th National Assembly had discussed the security issue for over 50 times.
“We discussed the security issue over 30 times in the 8th Assembly, and this present 9th Assembly has also discussed it over 50 times.
Let everybody be vigilant, even if we change our service chiefs many times, that cannot solve our security challenges,” the senator said.

Ranchers back CBN’s forex restriction for dairy imports
The Commercial Ranchers Association of Nigeria (CODARAN) has expressed support for the restriction placed on access to foreign exchange for dairy products.
Recall that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) issued a circular over a year ago on restricted companies seeking foreign exchange through the official window to import milk and dairy products.
But during a recent visit to the governor of the CBN, Godwin Emefiele, the Director-General of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, said the European Union (EU) had filed a complaint against Nigeria over the restriction.
In a statement by DianabasiAkpainyang, the CODARAN noted that Nigeria had the potential to harvest dairy products that would provide jobs and create investments in local production of milk.
“The CBN governor is right.
Nigeria truly has the potential to sustainably meet its dairy requirements.
If 20 per cent (over four million) of the over 20 million heads of cattle currently used as Nigeria’s estimated cattle population were producing one litre of milk per cow daily, two-third of a year (discounting for seasonal and other dynamics), then there would be 900 million to 1billion litres of milk available for collection across the country in a year,’’ he stated.
Akpainyang noted that the milk available for collection and processing may not be anywhere near the figure at the moment, but pointed out that since the likelihood is there, it is necessary “for everyone to put their feet on fire” due to the urgency required to develop the local dairy sector.
While citing a report by the CBN that Nigeria spends about $1.5billion on importing dairy products annually, he said the figure would increase as the demand for dairy products increased.
He identified issues like poor productivity of local cattle breeds, cattle nutrition, animal disease management systems, lack of organised milk collection processes, limited access to finance, insecurity, poor infrastructure, insufficient extension services, inadequate processing and storage facilities, low investment in research and development and minimal adoption of modern technology as the major problems bedevilling the sector.
He, however, said the problems were tackled by the Advancing Local Dairy Development in Nigeria (ALDDN) programme, which is currently running in four states – Adamawa, Kaduna, Kano and Plateau.

PDP kicks as APC claims registering 2.5m in Lagos
There is uproar following the disclosure by the All Progressives Congress (APC) that it registered 2.5 million members in Lagos during the nationwide registration and revalidation exercise.
Chairman of the APC Lagos Registration Supervisory Committee, Dr. Muhammad Bashiru, had said during the closing and presentation of recommendation letters to the supervisors that about 2.5 million members were registered across the 20 local government areas in the state.
But the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which is the leading opposition party, described the figure as false and fake.
PDP said APC was in the “habit of concocting figures” to give an impression of acceptability.
The PDP spokesman, Taofik Gani, in a chat with Daily Trust described the APC as a party of liars, saying it had become unpopular in the state.
“This is not the first time they would be bandying figures around which are false.
Even in the last election, the total number of votes by APC was around 600,000.
The 2.5 million claim is false and fake,” he said.
Our correspondent reports that APC candidate Babajide Sanwo-Olu won the 2019 governorship election with 739,445 votes while President Muhammadu Buhari garnered 580,825 votes in the presidential election.
Also speaking, the state chairman of National Conscience Party (NCP), Comrade Bayo Ogunleye, described the “claim” by the APC “as the greatest lie of the century.”
But APC spokesman Seye Oladejo told our correspondent that the party would prove its numerical strength in the forthcoming July 24 local government election.

Geographical Indication will promote diversification of economy – FG
The Federal Government has stressed that Geographical Indications (GIs) will help in promoting diversification of the economy and also support participation in the African Continental Free Trade Area.
The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Sabo Nanono, made this known at the capacity building workshop on GIs for public sector/policymakers in Nigeria in Abuja.
Nanono, who was represented by the Deputy Director of Irrigation and Crop development, Haija Sugra Mahmood, noted that the initiative if properly harnessed, will also support the preservation of the country’s biodiversity that is facing an existential threat from the effects of climate change and the attendant destruction of the environment.
According to him, it can assist in commercializing the products of food culture and other aspects of culture thus enabling the value chain actors to benefit from the commercialization, especially women and youth in the rural space who are mainly involved in the production of these products.
“Therefore, this workshop comes at a crucial moment when this administration is working tirelessly to diversify the country’s economy away from Hydrocarbons, by promoting other sectors such as Agriculture, Manufacturing, Mining, Tourism etc.
“Initiatives such as this that promote the GIs will help to fast track the processes in the diversification of the economy and also support our participation in the African Continental Free Trade Area as well as globally.
“GIs can be catalytic in reviving the rural economy as we have seen it happen in the case of some products that have been properly branded such as Ofada Rice, Kilishi, Dudu Osun, etc.
“It will also enable the documentation of our indigenous knowledge which sadly we are losing as time passes.
“The current administration stands ready to partner with all the relevant stakeholders both local and foreign in its bid to preserve the natural and bio-cultural diversity endowment in the country and also exploit it to strengthen the resilience of the economy, so as to provide a decent livelihood for all Nigerians,” he stated.
Earlier, the Minister of State Industry, Trade and Investment, Haija Mariam Katagum, in her welcome address, said that the workshop is specifically designed to train Public Sector and Policy Makers in Nigeria, with a view to examining the possibilities of adopting Geographical Indications (GIs) legislation and policy into Nigeria’s industrial property and agricultural landscape.
She said that it is imperative to also highlight the coming into effect of the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement (AfCFTA), which puts a responsibility on decision-makers, to begin the discourse of updating industrial property legislation.

Israeli president holds talks in search for new govt
Israel’s President Reuven Rivlin is preparing for talks with top politicians on forming a government after caretaker Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu failed to do so following inconclusive elections in March.
According to Rivlin’s office, talks with Naftali Bennett of the Yamina party and the former opposition leader Yair Lapid of the Yesh Atid (Future) party is scheduled for Wednesday morning.
The head of state also invited representatives of the other parties represented in parliament to present their positions on the progress of the government formation process.
A deadline for right-winger Netanyahu to form a governing coalition expired overnight.
This means that the camp of Netanyahu’s opponents is facing a chance to end the 71-year-old’s era as head of government.
Whether they will succeed, however, is still completely open.
A new election is still not out of the question as Israel remains in a political crisis.
Netanyahu remains at the head of an interim government for the time being.
He has been in office continuously for 12 years and is the longest-serving head of government in Israel’s history.
A corruption trial is underway against him,he, however, rejects the accusations made in it.
It was expected that Rivlin might appoint opposition leader Lapid to form the government.
His party belongs to the political centre; at the end of March, it became the second-strongest force in the fourth parliamentary election in two years.
Rivlin could also give the mandate to the Knesset.
In this case, each Member of Parliament can try to find the support of 61 of the 120 members within 21 days.
(dpa/NAN)

Ganduje frees 123 prison inmates for eid-el-Fitr
Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano has granted freedom to 123 prison inmates across the state.
Ganduje, who witnessed the release of the inmates from Goron Dutse Prison on Thursday, said the gesture was in the spirit of the Eid-El Fitr celebration.
He said the beneficiaries were selected based on the gravity of offences and signs of reformation while in prison.
The governor said that the decision to visit the prison was to show the inmates that the state government was aware of their existence and that they were also regarded as citizens of the state.
Ganduje said that the gesture was to complement the Federal Government’s efforts to further reduce congestion in the nation’s prisons.
He advised the ex-inmates to change their attitudes to life and pray for peace and stability in Nigeria.
The governor also gave each of the freed inmates N5,000 as transport fare to their various destination.
Earlier, the Comptroller ‎of Prisons in Kano, Suleiman Suleiman, thanked the governor for freeing thousands of inmates since his coming into office.
Suleiman advised the freed inmates to stay off crime to avoid going back to prison.
Ganduje also visited remand homes and Kano children’s home in the metropolis as part Sallah celebration.
(NAN)

Korda breaks through on Parma clay
On the eve of Roland Garros, 20-year-old American Sebastian Korda scored a career breakthrough when he beat Italian Marco Cecchinato, 6-2, 6-4, in Parma for a first title.
Korda, the son of former world
No 2 and Australian Open winner Petr Korda, had never reached a final on the ATP tour and before the Parma event, had never won consecutive matches on clay.
Cecchinato, who won all three of his titles on clay, comes from Brescia, 90 kilometres from Parma.
The fans allowed into the first-time event supported for the local boy.
“Today I played a really tough opponent and the crowd wasn’t easy,” Korda said.
“They kept cheering him on, but I’m really proud of myself
and how I handled it.”
Although his father is Czech, Sebastian Korda, who was born in Florida, chose to represent the US.
Saturday’s victory made him the first American player to win a clay court tournament since Sam Querrey in Belgrade 11 years ago.
“This is something that I’ve dreamed of,” Korda said, adding that he had expected to win a title sooner, naming an event in Florida in January.
“I really thought I was going to get it done in Delray Beach, and I was a little heartbroken.”

What not to wear in public: Negating Nigeria’s multiculturalism
By Bashir Ibrahim Hassan
Was it pure coincidence that, as trouble was brewing in Kwara State recently, a solution to its kind was being considered in the lower House of the National Assembly in the capital territory Abuja?
The trouble in Ilorin was over the refusal of some Christian faith schools to allow their Muslim students wear hijab to the schools.
The solution to this impasse was the debate on the ‘Religious Discrimination (Prohibition, Prevention)
RDPP Bill, 2021, derisively tagged Hijab Bill by a section of the Nigerian media.
Both events sparked heated and often emotional debates that, at the bottom of it all, threaten to negate Nigeria’s multicultural identity and reality.
The whole idea in Kwara of the proprietors of the schools banning hijab-adorning Muslim students and their sympathisers can be reduced to what not to wear in public.
This is also the major part of the concern of the RDPP Bill before the House of Representatives—the humiliation and denial of opportunities
female Nigerians are faced with because of what they wear in public.
The former is clearly in breach of the fundamental human rights of the Muslim students to express their faith without discrimination; even though the school may have their defence for taking such a position.
The latter is trying to assert this right not only for Muslims but also Christians wherever or whenever they are threatened with discrimination based on their professed faith.
Running through the argument of the proprietors of the Christian faith schools in Kwara, one could easily understand the pragmatic appeal of the argument that Muslim children should go to other schools elsewhere if they don’t want to conform.
The problems with this argument are many.
First, to say Muslim students should go elsewhere unless they conform to the school’s rule on uniform does very little to promote inclusiveness, which is the bedrock of our multicultural and multi-religious society.
Secondly, the position begs the moral question: is it justifiable to base a school rule because of Christian majoritarian nature of the school?
Then, thirdly, the go elsewhere argument appears to ignore the difficulties in changing a school for a child.
The inconvenience is huge.
The act of changing schools for a child, educational psychologists will tell you, interferes negatively with not only its emotional but academic development too.
Finally, the Christian faith schools by themselves risk what is called ghettorization by concentrating students with the same religious beliefs in particular schools.
The social cost this exacts on the society is enormous.
The Commissioner for Education, Kemi Adeosun, argues, when speaking to the press, that “the government is convinced that its policy to allow willing Muslim schoolgirls to wear their hijab in public schools will lead to sustainable peace and communal harmony anchored on mutual respect and understanding”.
In a country that guarantees freedom of religion, signed the declaration of International Human Rights, the basic question to ask is: how justifiable is it to deny a Nigerian child access to a school of its choice on the basis of the manifestation of its religion?
It is a great concern because Nigeria is a signatory to the Universal Declaration on Human Rights (UDHR).
The UDHR insists that all human beings are free and equal, regardless of colour, creed or religion.
It contains 30 articles on rights and freedoms that include, among others, civil and political rights, like the right to life, free speech and privacy.
It also includes economic, social and cultural rights, like the right to health and education.
I find articles 18 and 26 of UDHR very relevant to the issue under consideration and quote them in full below:
Article 18: Everyone has the freedom to think or believe what they want, including the right to religious belief.
We have the right to change our beliefs or religion at any time, and the right to publicly or privately practise our chosen religion, alone or with others.
Article 26
: Everyone has the right to education.
Primary schooling should be free.
We should all be able to continue our studies as far as we wish.
At school we should be helped to develop our talents, and be taught an understanding and respect for everyone’s human rights.
We should also be taught to get on with others whatever their ethnicity, religion, or country they come from.
Our parents have the right to choose what kind of school we go to.
These types of laws were the instruments that gave Muslim ladies like Ilhan Omar the equality to sit in the House of Representatives in the US wearing her Hijab without any form of molestation or discrimination.
Ilhan Abdullahi Omar is an American politician serving as the U.S. Representative for Minnesota’s 5th congressional district since 2019.
Enter the RDPP.
It is a bill sponsored by the Deputy Chairman of the House of Representatives’ Committee on Finance and member representing Bida/Gbako/Katcha Federal constituency of Niger State, Hon.
Saidu Musa Abdullahi.
The bill is seeking to address discriminatory conducts and prohibit religious discrimination concerning hiring or recruitment, terms and conditions of employment.
It will prohibit qualifying/professional bodies, educational institutions, employment agencies, and other sectors from discriminating against persons, students or personnel based on their religious belief or its manifestation.
When passed, the law will bury issues such as what we saw in Kwara for good.
It will also address the bigotry of some employers, or those executives who take their prejudice to public office and allow it to becloud their sense of judgment.
The law should be a welcome development.
After all, it is only to expand and expatiate the provisions of Nigeria’s constitution and the UDHR document as explained above.
It is in line with similar laws passed recently in the country seeking to tackle social menace and harmful cultural practices—the Disability Law and the Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP).
While disability seeks to eradicate all forms of discrimination based on a person’s disabilities, VAPP is addressing domestic and other gender-based violence in the country.
One at a time, our representatives in the legislative chambers are tackling the social menaces bedeviling our country through legal instruments.
They are addressing these social ills not because there were no prior generic laws that cover them but because they need to be addressed more comprehensively to leave no room for opacity.
While UDHR may seem like a far, distant document with no instrument of enforcement, the RDPP Law and others like it are provided to allocate punishments for offenders.
Contrary to the view of its critics, as far as the RDPP Bill is concerned, there is nothing to show attempts at seeking the enthronement of a state religion on any state that may domesticate the law eventually.
It does not go against Section 10 of the Nigerian Constitution that says “The Government of the Federation or of a State shall not adopt any religion as State Religion.”
To peddle this argument, because the bill calls on the general public to respect the rights of Muslim women that wear Hijab in public spaces smacks of Islamophobia only.
In the final analysis, to deny a Nigerian – male or female – his or her religious freedom negates our multicultural pretenses.
It negates the concept of equality, and basic human right as enshrined in Nigeria’s constitution and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights legal document.
A bill that will criminalize such decimations based on religious grounds, like the RDPP bill, is a welcome development.
Bashir wrote from Abuja

Niger’s President Issoufou wins N1.905bn African leadership prize
Niger’s President Mahamadou Issoufou has been announced the 2020 winner of the $5m (N1.905 billion)
Ibrahim prize for African leadership.
Issoufou has served two five-year terms as president from 2011 to 2020.
He is set to be succeeded by former interior minister, Mohamed Bazoum, who won the presidential election last month.
The prize committee praised the Nigerien president’s leadership after inheriting one of the world’s poorest economies.
It said he “fostered economic growth, shown unwavering commitment to regional stability and to the constitution, and championed African democracy.”
Mr Issoufou is the sixth recipient of the Ibrahim Prize.
He has tweeted that the prize honours all Nigerien people.
“I consider this award an encouragement to continue to think and act in such a way that promotes democratic values and good governance, not only in Niger, but in Africa and around the world,” he added.
Previous winners of the prize include Ellen Johnson Sirleaf of Liberia (2017), President Hifikepunye Pohamba of Namibia (2014), President Pedro Pires of Cabo Verde (2011), President Festus Mogae of Botswana (2008) and President Joaquim Chissano of Mozambique (2007).
(BBC).

KEDCO gets taskforce to enforce collection, check meter bypass
The Management of Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO) has formed a taskforce to enforce payment of electricity bills.
In a statement by Ibrahim Sani Shawai, the Head of Corporate Communications, KEDCO, the taskforce has been empowered to ensure that current and outstanding bills are collected as this would help KEDCO consolidate on the numerous  reforms to improve power supply.
The taskforce is also to check issues of meter bypass, illegal connections, energy theft and other forms of sabotage.
In this regard, anyone found engaging in any forms of sabotage would be dealt with in accordance with the laws of the land, it stated.
“We are appealing to all customers to remain vigilant on all our installations while ensuring that their meters are properly protected against vandals.
“We also assure all our customers that our metering initiative which is aimed at ending estimated billing and giving customers the opportunity to pay for what they consume, is still ongoing,” the statement stated.

IBEDC warns traders under power lines
The Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) has warned against trading under high-tension wire to avoid disasters.
IBEDC’s
Chief Operating Officer (COO), Engr John Ayodele, gave the charge against the backdrop of the increasing trading activities under high tension wires.
In Osogbo, the Osun State capital, mechanic shops, block industries, car wash shops, POS shops and petty trading are common features sighted under high tension wires along Power Line and Ring roads.
Engr Ayodele, therefore, pleaded with residents to take safety precautions as very important and advised those trading under high tension wires to move away to safe areas.
He also pleaded with residents not to engage quacks to fix power faults and assured that IBEDC’s technical crew would be available to rectify any fault that might arise.
He cautioned those in the habit of harassing IBEDC staff while going about their lawful duties to desist, saying IBEDC would explore all available legal options to seek redress should any of its staff become a victim of harassment.
He said, “It is also important that other safety precautions such as proper supervision of children is ensured to prevent electrical accidents.”

10 newborn babies die in Indian hospital fire
Ten newborn babies died on Saturday in a fire at a state-run hospital in western India, officials said.
There were 17 infants in the unit for sick newborn babies when the fire broke out in the early hours of Saturday at the Bhandara District General Hospital in Maharashtra state.
Seven infants died due to smoke suffocation, and three from burn injuries, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope told reporters.
Seven babies were rescued by the nurses and ward staff.
All the infants were aged between a few days and three months, Bhandara district health official Prashant Uike said.
The government has ordered a probe into the incident and a safety audit of all neo-natal care units in the state.
Initial reports indicated that the fire may have been caused by a short circuit in one of the incubators, Tope said.
“The staff said the ward quickly filled with lots of black smoke,” the minister added.
Legal requirements for a post-mortem had been waived and the bodies of the children handed to their families, Tope added.
Families of the victims would be given compensation of 500,000 rupees (about 6,814 dollars) each.
(dpa/NAN)

Police go after newspaper vendors over reports on IPOB
Newspaper vendors and readers in Aba, the commercial hub of Abia State, are currently being harassed by the police.
Daily Trust gathered since the weekend, policemen from the Aba Area Command  have been carrying out arrest of newspaper vendors and readers over reports on the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB).
Residents said there was tension at Ama-Ogbonna Junction in the commercial city when police raided the place on Sunday.
An eyewitness said residents scampered for safety, as police officers shot sporadically, while trying to arrest a newspaper vendor and readers.
The vendors were accused of distributing newspapers which had stories on the sit-at-home order by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB).
Dr. Elendu Ukoh, one of the eyewitness, appealed to the state government and Igbo leaders to call the police authorities rein in on their men so as not to create crisis in the city.
“The kind of people we put into police these days make me wonder if we really want anything good out of this country called Nigeria.
How can someone be chasing newspaper vendors around in Aba, in this modern world?
“If you stop people from reading hard copies of newspapers, will you also stop them from reading the same stories on Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, Telegram, among others?
What manner of primitive policing is this?
“They caused panic on Sunday by their shooting and noisemaking.
The whole neighborhood thought that they were chasing kidnappers.
It was later that we discovered that police came to arrest a vendor and readers, who gathered in his newspaper stand.
How can police be fighting newspaper vendors?
What manner of problem can paper cause that Social Media cannot cause 20 times over.
This people are not normal,” he said.
Michael Anorue, another resident, said almost all the vendor stands he visited in Aba
on Tuesday were empty.
He said, “We learnt they were saying on Saturday and Sunday that the newspapers had stories on the sit-at-home order in honour of Biafran heroes and my question is what is wrong with it?
“The early political leaders in South East, remind these reckless police officers that Biafra is bigger than IPOB the better for them.
Does proscription of IPOB mean that Biafra has been proscribed too?
“We’re all Biafrans!
On the 30th of May, the World Igbo Congress (WIC) held a zoom conversation, talking about Biafran fallen heroes.
Why can’t police go to YouTube, Zoom and other social media that aired it?
All they do is to come to streets and start looking for unnecessary trouble.
I wish the leaders in Igboland will warn those reckless police officers not to allow what’s happening in Imo State to enter Aba, because it will be worst for everybody.”
SP Geoffrey Ogbonna, Abia State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), denied that the police arrested newspaper vendors and readers in Aba.

NAMA kicks as air traffic controllers lament poor tools
Air Traffic Controllers (ATC) in Nigeria on Sunday cried out over “dilapidated navigational equipment” at most airports in the country.
The ATCs under the aegis of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA), said the situation posed a threat to air safety.
They also claimed that the Kaduna International Airport had no control tower which would aid safe aircraft navigation.
The President of NATCA, Yomi Agoro, in a chat with newsmen at the weekend, said what existed at the Kaduna airport was a watch room used by other aviation personnel and not a control tower exclusive for air traffic controllers.
He also said other airports in the country lacked the necessary equipment for seamless navigation.
He explained that “Some airports do not even have functioning equipment.
Even Kaduna does not have a control tower.
What they are using there is a watch room (for firefighters), which is not built for that purpose, and we have been calling on the government to do something.
“We go to Sokoto, once it rains today, controllers will go to look for umbrellas to sit at the control tower, and what is it, some of the control towers attached to the terminal buildings were ceded to FAAN, while those standing alone were with NAMA, but we have approached the two organisations.
“We are still battling with terrestrial radio frequency, communication here and there.
Calabar is there; there is no airport you will go to today that you would say things are working 80 per cent.”
NAMA had recently employed and trained 40 new controllers, but NATCA said the number was too low to meet the shortfall.
However, the Managing Director of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Capt Fola Akinkuotu, told Daily Trust that the claims were not true.
He said the federal government had invested hugely in improving navigational aids and aiding safe flight operations.
He said, “It is mere politics.
The government has spent so much in the recent past in improving aviation infrastructure.
I am saying this not because I am the MD of NAMA.
“If you want to hear the truth, my suggestion has always been, ask the people on the streets, ask the people in NAMA, they would tell you, they have never had it so good under this administration.
It is painful that people would be talking this way.
“We never had a Category Three (CAT3), this government put two in place, two others are coming.
Government has just spent N1.7bn on a mobile control tower.
Also there is an ongoing revitalisation of the safe tower.
We are revamping the TRACON (Total Radar Coverage of Nigeria) system.
Other sectors should be jealous of us.”

E-commerce in Nigeria: Legal framework, challenges and prospect
E-commerce refers to the use of communications technology particularly the internet to buy, sell and market goods and services to customers.
The internet has brought about a fundamental shift in national economies that are isolated from each other by barriers to cross-border trade and investment, isolated by distance, time zone and languages and isolated by the national differences in government regulations.
E-commerce equally fosters direct access to distant markets and promotes globalisation and commercial activities and blur many of the current distinctions between domestic and foreign companies to an extent that it becomes practically impossible to determine the origin of the products.
E-commerce is not limited to the purchase of a product, it includes e-mail, and other communications platforms, all information or services that a company may offer to customers over the net, from pre-purchase information to aftersale service and support.
The major significance of E-commerce thus lies in the fact that it encourages a single world trading system, which is facilitated by access through electronic means to goods and services from different parts of the world.
Most of the existing statues in Nigeria lag behind towards the development and growth of e-commerce in particular and ICT as a whole.
So many legal researches and studies on e-commerce in Nigeria have been conducted.
Most of these studies are of the opinion that the Nigerian legal system lags behind ICT-based legislation and that the existing statutory laws are quite inadequate to address some of the legal issues affecting e-commerce.
These issues include electronic evidence cybercrimes, security and data production, e-payment system and inevitably trans-border issues, and many more.
There is, therefore, the need to map out appropriate legal and regulatory measures, to govern the emerging regime.
It has been stated severally that in Nigeria, significant efforts at the regulation of e-commerce-related activities are still at the stage of Draft Bills before the National Assembly.
It is important to note that, even where these bills are passed into law, Nigeria may still face new legal issues in this area that will call for legislative intervention.
Given the speed with which the internet is permeating commercial transactions in Nigeria, especially in the banking and telecommunications sectors of the economy, the best that can be suggested is that the legal issues and problems presently confronting e-commerce in the country should be addressed directly and expeditiously, in the interests of the teeming population of Nigerian consumers.
To achieve this, the National Assembly should be pressuriSed into passing bills concerning electronic commerce, a top priority so that they can be enacted into law as quickly as possible.
In the interim, our courts should take a giant stride by interpreting the existing traditional laws liberally so as to bridge the gaps therein in order to make such laws amenable to electronic transactions, particularly in the emerging trend of the present-day information age.
Indeed, it was argued that legislation is not the only means by which electronic transaction and attendant documentation may be facilitated legally.
The courts may also adapt to recognise electronic transactions in the absence of legislation or private contract.
As the then Justice Bingham once put it thus:  the common law ‘has in the hands of judges the same facility [as the law merchant] for adapting itself to the changing needs of the general public; principles do not  alter, but old rules of applying the change, and new rules spring into existence.
It is hoped that this judicial activism would be adopted by other Nigerian judges, Supreme Court justices inclusive, especially in the areas where our existing legislation are grossly inadequate, comprehensive or elaborate enough to address legal challenges of the emerging technological advancements.
This will certainly set a good precedence to ensure the protection of e-commerce consumers, entice investors and above all bring about economic development and sustainability in the country.
The germane issues with regards to contracts in E-commerce are documentation and signature.
The provision of section 4 of the Statute of Fraud, 1677 or Lagos State Law Reform (Contract) Law and our various statutes on real property and landed instruments, all of which require certain contracts to be in writing and be duly executed .The
question then is would an electronic mark or sign constitute a valid sign-off of a contract by email and be binding?
Many of these issues are still not quite settled even in the UK although some  decisions incline favourably towards interpreting electronic signature
so marks in emails as satisfying the traditional requirement of writing and due execution.
E-commerce transactions are paperless transactions made through magnetic materials such as tapes or disks.
These are in contradistinction to the paper-based transactions that are embodied in a permanent form and typically expressed in words and figures usually authenticated by signatures.
Such transactions can therefore not be altered without an alteration on the face of the document.
With respect to signatures, by the provision of section 93(2)(3), evidence act 2011, an electronic signature in relation to a data message conveniently satisfies any requirement for a handwritten signature in so far as it sufficiently identifies an electronic record to the individual.
The provision of article 7 of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) model law on e-commerce 1996 is equally trite on this issue.
Thus, for the purpose of establishing proof of electronic signatures.
The use of a password, identification, user names etc may suffice.
Hence one may safely posit that electronic signatures for the purpose of execution are admissible in evidence provided it is certified and incorporated in an electronic communication in the course of an e-transaction.
Also, other legal challenges affecting e-commerce include the formation of contracts.
The element for a valid formation of contract includes an offer, acceptance, consideration, intention to enter into legal relation.
The question is at what point can an offer be made with regards to an electronic business transaction or how to differentiate between invitation to treat and offer an electronic transaction, at what point can it be said that an intention to enter legal relation is made?
E-commerce requires confidence and trust the satisfaction that transmitted orders or invoices have not been altered and emanate from whoever they appear to be from.
There is a need for a guaranteed level of privacy /confidentiality with respect to information.
Lastly, the alarming rate of cybercrimes in Nigeria, high level of illiteracy.
Electronic commerce is no doubt an aspect of commercial transaction in Nigeria and it has come to stay in this time.
The government should go beyond creating laws, to activate utilisation of the electronic delivery platforms in its commercial interactions and for delivery of government services.
Abanikanda Happiness Wuraola can be reached via Woorah50@gmail.com

Chad passes new charter naming Deby’s son president
Chad has passed a charter declaring Mahamat Idriss Deby president, despite rumours of his death trending on social media.
Mahamat takes over in place of his father, Idriss Deby, who was killed this week.
The charter said the 37-year-old son of the late war veteran, who on Tuesday was swiftly named transitional leader as head of a military council following his father’s death, will “occupy the functions of the president of the republic” and also serve as head of the armed forces.
The charter repeals the preceding constitution and will be implemented as the “basic law of the republic,” according to its terms.
The younger Deby has also been named “supreme head of the armed forces,” it said.
Deby’s son had overseen his father’s security as head of the elite presidential guard and had often appeared alongside him.
Mahamat Deby is best known as a top commander of the Chadian forces assisting a United Nations peacekeeping mission in the restive north of neighbouring Mali.
He signed a decree Tuesday setting out a military council with 15 generals, including himself and 14 others known to have been part of the late president’s circle of loyalists.
The council is tasked with an 18-month transition toward “free and democratic elections.”
Mahamat Idriss Deby also chairs the “military transition council, the council of ministers, the councils and superior committees of national defence,” according to the charter.
The new head of state will promulgate legislation adopted by the 69 members of the national transition council, who are named directly by Mahamat.
The Transition Charter, which contains 95 articles, also guarantees “freedom of opinion, conscience and worship.”
A transition government has been set up, whose members are named by the new president.
“The members of the army who are called to the transition government are discharged from all military duties,” the charter said.
Chadian law
The slain leader, who ruled with an iron fist for nearly 30 years, succumbed to wounds suffered during a visit to the battlefield in the country’s north where Chadian soldiers fought against a rebel group, the military announced on Tuesday.
Calling for calm, the army also announced a 6pm curfew and shut the country’s borders, while suspending the constitution and dissolving the National Assembly.
However,  opposition politicians in Chad have rejected the army’s appointment of President Idriss Déby’s son to take over in the wake of his death.
Experts say that under Chadian law, the speaker of parliament should have taken power after Deby’s death and not his son.
“What the constitution says is that in the absence of the president or in case he dies, then the speaker of the parliament takes charge of the country for 40 days and so a transition is put in place until elections are held,” Al Jazeera’s Hiba Morgan, reporting from the capital, Ndjamena, said earlier on Tuesday.
“[But] the military announced that the legislative assembly has been dissolved and that the constitution also has been dissolved, so what they are doing is that they replaced the constitution with their own set of rules.”aw

Chelsea face ‘possible’ points deduction after brawl with Leicester
Chelsea are facing possible points deduction by he FA for the team’s failure to control their players, Mirror reports.
In seven years, the team have been found pants down in seven hot-tempered rows with opponents.
The recent brawl during a clash on Tuesday night with Leicester marked the  seventh encounter Chelsea had with Premier League teams.
Last week match between Chelsea and Leicester was marred by skirmishes between the players of both teams.
Citing similar offenses in the past, the FA decided to punish Chelsea.
Leicester have also been charged for their role in the brawl that involved players and coaching staff following Ricardo Pereira’s challenge on Ben Chilwell.
In 2016, Chelsea were also charged for indiscipline that they had to be warned, after appealing against 375,000 dollar levy for their part in  a mass bust-up during a match against Tottenham.
If affected, the points deduction will significantly affect their season as they head into a final campaign for a top four spot.

US’s Africom in Nigeria? Heck No!
“Overpaid, oversexed and over here’’.
That was the resentful and contemptuous opinion many British people came to have of the thousands of American GIs stationed in several military bases in Britain during the Second World War.
The gum-chewing, brash, hard-drinking and womanising American soldiers frequently got into pub brawls and dangerous knife fights which built up a feeling of disdain for the yanks among the locals.
And this has been the pattern of behaviour among American soldiers everywhere in the hundreds of American military bases overseas from Okinawa in Japan, Stuttgart in Germany, Incirlik and Diyarbakir in Turkey and Pampanga in the Philippines.
That is why I am perturbed, like many Nigerians, that in a virtual meeting last week with the Secretary of State of the United States of America, Antony Blinken, President Buhari was reported to have asked that the United States considers relocating the African Command (Africom) of its military presently based in the southern German city of Stuttgart to Africa.
It is presumed that with this call, President Buhari is making a pitch for Nigeria to host Africom.
In the first place, it was a breach of protocol for President Buhari to hold that meeting with the American Secretary of State.
The meeting should have been with Blinken’s Nigerian opposite number, Geoffrey Onyeama, who would then transmit the details afterwards to the president.
Yes, America is a superpower and all that, but protocol is protocol and should be followed strictly in all circumstances.
Understandably, Nigeria is currently faced with gargantuan internal insecurity issues which seem to defy the best efforts of government and the nation’s security establishment in tackling it.
Unrelenting terrorist insurgency in the North East, banditry, kidnapping in the North West, farmers/herders clashes all over the country and the targeted killing of security and law enforcement personnel and other Nigerians coupled with the destruction of institutional buildings in the South East, constitute the cocktail of insecurity now ravaging the country.
But even at that, the call for the hosting of the Africom on Nigerian soil when considered against the various issues and implications of this move to Nigeria is hardly justified.
Africom is one of nine such commands by the American military establishment to exclusively serve American strategic interests around the world.
By their doctrine and operational modus, these commands, particularly those outside America like Africom, are not set up primarily to concern themselves with the security and law enforcement issues of their area of coverage.
They only do so when such issues directly affect American interests in the area and in such situations, they are not mandated to yield their modus operandi and share intelligence with the local security and law enforcement agencies.
If Africom is set up in Nigeria for instance, it will be an island of its own restricting access to Nigerians of all categories and establishing a jurisdiction within the territorial area of the base that will be virtually off limits to Nigerian security and law enforcement agencies.
As it always happens with American military bases outside America, Africom will be a forward operating base for disruptive intelligence operations and source of acts of sabotage and destabilisation against the host country.
In the particular case of Africom, part of its original concept was actually to contain the growing strategic influence of Nigeria in West Africa and Africa following our successful peace enforcement efforts in Liberia and Sierra Leone and our sterling records of peace keeping around the world.
Africom’s precursor was the Africa Crisis Response Initiative (ACRI) set up by the Clinton administration to counter Nigeria’s strategic interests in Africa.
President Clinton’s Secretary of State, the dour-faced California attorney, Warren Christopher, made many secret and open visits to a number of African countries to sell the idea.
But because Nigeria was the target, he pointedly left it out from his itinerary.
Senegal, which is not far from Liberia and Sierra Leone, was to be the coordinating base of the ACRI and though it was touted as an initiative to facilitate American assistance to African humanitarian issues, its secret protocols were unmistakably military and strategically targeted at Nigeria.
Due mainly to undisguised hostility to the idea from France, which was averse to seeing the Americans trying to butt into an area it considers its exclusive sphere of influence, the ACRI concept was reviewed.
In the review, which drew the expertise of American military, intelligence, political and academic personalities and institutions midwifed by the American congress in secret sessions, the Americans considered and realised the need to set up an African command to add to the other commands already in place covering the various continents of the world.
Thus based on recommendations of these assemblage of experts drawn from all facets of American political and security establishments, Africom was set up by the Bush Junior administration with a wider mandate not just to contain Nigeria but also to keep an eye on the growing Chinese strategic penetration of Africa.
Africom will be to Africa what US Central Command (USCENTCOM), based in Florida, is to the Middle East and Asia, European Command (EUCOM), based in Stuttgart, Germany, is to Europe and Southern Command (SOUTHCOM), also based in Florida, is to Latin America and the Caribbean.
Nigeria is already surrounded by French military presence in Niger, Cameroon, Chad, and Benin.
The Americans also have a drone base in Niger.
Adding Africom to the mix in Nigeria will amount to a complete capitulation of our strategic interest to both France and America.
Bearing in mind that our strategic interests and profile in Africa do not always cohere with those of France and America, the hosting of Africom in Nigeria will be the equivalent of letting in the wolf into the chicken coop.
There is nothing in the present insecurity challenges facing the country that our armed forces cannot cope with.
This is after all the military force that eventually secured Liberia and Sierra Leone against a well-entrenched and organised army of insurgents in those countries from a long logistical supply line thousands of miles; the army of Joshua Dogonyaro, Victor Malu and Maxwell Khobe, to mention but a few of the many gallant Nigerian soldiers who distinguished themselves in those operations.
It is regrettable that the military of Nigeria, having fallen from the high standards known of it, is struggling now to cope with the activities of non-state actors internally.
But intrinsically and essentially, the Nigerian military retains the capacity and capability to defeat these threats to our national security given the right leadership, doctrine and motivation.
We need all the assistance and cooperation that the Americans can give us if they are so willing.
But despite our circumstances be arm-twisted into hosting the Africom in view of its antecedents and implications to our strategic interests, on our soil.

Despite challenges, Plateau targets 7m metric tons of Irish potato
Plateau State is Nigeria’s number one grower of Irish potato with the tuber currently produced in nine of the state’s 17 local government areas.
The Potato Value Chain Support Project of the African Development Bank (AfDB) initiative pegs Plateau as accounting for 90 per cent of the potato production in the country with countries like Chad, Ghana, Niger, Benin among others receiving large supplies of potato from Nigeria.
The large potato production from Plateau State, according to PotatoPRO.com, a leading information source for the global potato industry, has made Nigeria the fourth biggest producer in sub-Saharan Africa.
However, farmers say inadequate dams and road networks, and high cost of fertilizer and other farming inputs continue to pose a major setback in the production of sufficient potatoes for the nation and for export.
Other challenges contributing to low yields and harvest losses to the potato value chain include diseases such as blight and bacterial wilt as well as poor seedlings.
According to the National Bureau of Statistics, Plateau State is among the 10 poorest states in Nigeria with over 70% poverty rate.
The state, however, has a comparative advantage to boost economic activities by improving the competitiveness of the potato commodity value chain.
The Project Coordinator for the Potato Value Chain Support Project, Thomas Muopshin, said though the viability of the tuber crop is evident in nine local government areas of Plateau, Bokkos and Mangu LGAs are the state’s potato hub.
They produce more potatoes than any LGA in the country.
Muopshin, however, said adaptability research indicates that the state’s remaining eight LGAs are equally viable to produce potato; making all of Plateau’s 17 LGA potentials to produce the tuber, especially during the dry season.
The Association of Potato Farmers (APF) in the state, however, says unless challenges affecting the value chain are addressed squarely, increased production and export in potato would continue to elude the nation.
Plateau State Chairman of APF, Lazarus Makut, in an interview with Daily Trust, said inadequate smaller dams, especially in remote areas where potato farming is viable as well as poor roads and high cost of farm inputs, continue to affect potato outputs.
He said the cost of mechanised farming which could rapidly increase productivity has become expensive with the majority of farmers who are small scale producers unable to afford mechanization.
Another farmer, Martha Mamgup, who grows potatoes in Ampang town in Mangu LGA, said inadequate water during the dry season affects potato farmers and leads to annual low yield.
Because of this, she said, the majority of farmers search for borehole locations to farm to access irrigation water for their farms.
Martha explained also that the high cost of fertiliser prevents many farmers from improving quantity and quality of yield, adding that “insufficient fertiliser affects the crop’s output.
The cost also prevents many of us from expanding the business.
So, getting fertiliser has not been easy for us.”
She said the construction of more dams and boreholes for irrigation would lead to mass production of potatoes.
“If the water is not sufficient for the crop, it would dry and eventually die and that is why some farmers who have the resources prefer to dig boreholes in Mangu purposely for irrigation because, without it, dry season farming becomes difficult,” she said.
Irish potato at a market in Jos 
Production to reach 7million metric ton after lab completion
With Plateau State’s potato production jumping from 1,656,650 metric tons in 2017 to 2,359,890 metric tons in 2020, the establishment of the Potato Value Chain Support Project and the construction of the tissue culture lab are expected to cause the tripling of production to over seven million metric tons by the end of 2021.
The Monitoring and Evaluating officer of the state’s Potato Value Chain Support Project, Baleri Yakubu, told Daily Trust that the state is expected to commence production of six million metric tons of potato annually after the tissue culture lab is completed at the end of 2021 but expressed optimism that production could exceed seven million metric tons annually.
Yakubu, however, said the state government should tackle other challenges faced by farmers especially those of fertiliser as well as more dams and road networks while farmers are expected to properly apply potato farming regulations to achieve the expected target.
Our correspondent gathered that the tissue culture lab, which is intended to improve potato yields in the state by providing clean seed which is resistant to pests and other potato-related diseases, is expected to commence operation fully in a few months.
Yakubu said the advent of the lab would certainly improve income for farmers and revenue for the state government while also aiding food security effort in the country.
Farmers in Plateau State, however, believe that the tissue lab, if fully equipped, would largely reduce the cost of treatment for the crops when they were affected by any disease.
They also hope that better quality seed would be available at an affordable price.

FG yet to return £4.2m Ibori loot to Delta – Accountant General
The Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) revealed Wednesday that the Federal Government has not returned the £4.2 million loot recovered from former Governor James Ibori to Delta Government.
“The money is still being awaited after which the issues around it will be resolved before further action is taken.
For now, no money has been returned to Delta State,” a statement from the Office, signed by the Director of Information, Press and Public Relations, Henshaw Ogubike, revealed.
The statement said that the issue of the £4.2million Ibori loot has not been properly resolved.
On the previous comment of the Accountant General to the National Assembly that the loot had been returned to the Delta government, Henshaw Ogubike said: “The AGF was only making general comments about recoveries relating to State Governments”.

Hardcore Super League trio defiant against UEFA ‘coercion’
Super League trio Real Madrid, Barcelona and Juventus insisted on Wednesday they “remain committed to modernising football” despite UEFA’s threats of disciplinary action.
UEFA on Tuesday opened formal disciplinary proceedings against the three clubs which are still refusing to give up the aborted Super League project.
In a joint statement, Italian’s Juventus and the two Spanish sides said they “remain committed to modernising football through an open dialogue with UEFA”.
“FC Barcelona, Juventus FC and Real Madrid CF wish to express their absolute rejection of the insistent coercion that UEFA has been maintaining towards three of the most relevant institutions in the history of football,” the statement read.
“This alarming attitude constitutes a flagrant breach of the decision of the courts of justice, which have already made a clear statement warning UEFA to refrain from taking any action that could penalise the founding clubs of the Super League while the legal proceedings are ongoing.
“Therefore, the opening of disciplinary proceedings by UEFA is incomprehensible and is a direct attack against the rule of law that we, the citizens of the European Union, have democratically built up, while constituting a lack of respect toward the authority of the courts of justice themselves.”

China administers nearly 140 million COVID-19 vaccines
China has administered 139.97 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines as of April 4, 2021, said the country’s National Health Commission (NHC).
China is working to ensure its vaccination efforts in major areas and key industries based on the overall plan of the country, inoculating the eligible population as widely as possible and progressing in stages, said Wu Liangyou, deputy director of the NHC’s Disease Prevention and Control Bureau.
The country is gathering resources to ensure inoculation in large- and medium-sized cities, port cities, and border areas with high risks of infection, and priorities are given to key groups including public sector employees, students and faculty of colleges and universities, as well as service staff of large supermarkets, Wu said, adding that vaccination for other groups is also in progress.
At present, Beijing, Shanghai and some other places in China have administered COVID-19 vaccines to senior citizens above the age of 60 and patients with chronic diseases who are willing to be vaccinated and in good physical conditions.
He Qinghua, an official with the NHC, noted that the commission will advance the vaccination campaign in an order of priority, following the principle of informed consent, voluntary participation and free inoculation.
The country is coordinating regular prevention and control with its vaccination efforts, ensuring that the regulatory responsibility of local governments and the oversight responsibility are fulfilled, and advancing its vaccination campaign in a more secured, orderly and forceful manner, he said.
Besides, China is also taking steps to include more people in its vaccination campaign to ensure their health, the official added.
So far, China has approved COVID-19 vaccines produced by five enterprises for conditional marketing or emergency use.
Phase III clinical trials of three inactivated vaccines and one adenovirus vaccine showed that their efficacy met the requirements of China’s National Medical Products Administration and the World Health Organization.
Phase II trials of the recombinant protein subunit vaccine approved for emergency use showed the vaccine is safe and can induce a strong immune response.
“COVID-19 vaccines adopted by China have all gone through clinical studies in accordance with relevant standards, approved by national drug regulatory organisations and put into use after passing a strict examination,” said Li Bin, deputy head of the NHC.
All vaccines must be monitored and have their temperatures recorded at regular intervals to ensure that they meet the requirements regarding temperature environment and transportation.
China’s health regulators also enhanced efforts on the training of health workers, requiring them to strictly obey operating instructions, so as to guarantee the efficacy and safety of the vaccines, Li added.

Wema Bank holds essay contest for kids
Wema Bank Plc is hosting a creative essay competition for children that will test the creative writing abilities of young school children aged five to 12 years.
The 2021 Royal Kiddies Essay Competition tagged “Write & Win”, aims to develop writing skills, promote creativity, imagination capabilities, reward creativity, and drive them towards excellence in their learning process.
Ten kids will emerge from a transparent, credible, and thorough screening process.
The top three Essays will each get Huawei tablets and Royal Kiddies branded T-shirts.
The seven other finalists will each get a N20,000 prepaid gift card for school supplies in addition to a branded T-shirt.
The essay competition is open to children whose parents have opened and funded a Royal Kiddies Account for their children or wards and will see entries close by May 24, 2021.

From ‘Hushpuppi’ to Abidemi Rufai ‘Sandy Tang’
By Oludayo Tade
Twelve months ago, Ramoni Abbas (37 years) popularly known as ‘hushpuppi’ was arrested in June 2020 in Dubai for alleged money laundering from business email compromise fraud and other scams which targeted firms and an English premier league club.
He made a total sum of $435 million after defrauding 1,926,400 victims.
A year after, Abidemi Rufai (also known as ‘Sandy Tang’), a Senior Special Assistant on Special Duties to Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun was also arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) at John F Kennedy Airport, New York over a criminal complaint of defrauding Washington State Employment Security Department of $350,000 (N144,375,000).
The ‘stolen’ funds were pandemic relief fund designed by the Washington State for people who might have suffered job losses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The fraud incident occurred during the lockdown and the investigation bureau began tracking the alleged fraudster who would have been at Nigeria’s Federal House of Representative ‘making laws’ if he had not lost the Ijebu North/Ijebu East/Ogun Waterside Federal Constituency election to Adekoya Adesegun of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
The fraud was perpetrated by stealing the identities of more than 100 Washington residents by filing falsified claims with the Employment Security Department (ESD) for pandemic-related unemployment benefits.
For each identity stolen, a separate e-mail account was created so that the claims would be associated with different persons and it can escape automatic fraud detection systems.
Thereafter, more than $288,000 was paid into his American bank account between March and August 2020.
Cybercrime is a global threat to individuals, organisations and countries.
Nigeria loses more than $128 billion to cybercrimes annually.
By the end of 2021, the world would have lost a total of $6 trillion.
Till date, over 40 Nigerians have been or are being investigated for their complicity in fraudulent scams by the FBI.
Rufai’s alleged unemployment benefits fraud falls under what I have called COVID-419 frauds in Nigeria.
These are fraudulent scams leveraging on the loopholes created by the COVID-19 pandemic to scam people, government and organisations.
During the COVID-19 lockdown in Nigeria, cybercriminals patterned their frauds along the interventions from government and private sectors and scammed many and some of these schemes still exist till date.
There was ‘Domino’ pizza fraud, federal government cash palliative fraud, N20, 000 Dangote relief fund fraud and promo sales fraud among others.
While there are those who engage in cyber-criminality in the Diaspora, some youngsters do so within Nigeria.
They are regularly arrested, tried and convicted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
Understanding the cultures sustaining cyber-criminality may help a serious government in fighting the crime.
The family is the microcosm of the larger society.
It is the place where a normal human being is expected to be nurtured for the society.
Apart from the fact that many Nigerian families are in the dungeon of poverty and can hardly take care of their children, some of these children have become breadwinners, albeit, illegitimately.
There is a challenge with ethical behaviour training in many homes as parents being arrested alongside their children who are involved in cyber-criminality.
Elsewhere, mothers of yahoo-boys are forming associations to celebrate their sons’ success and justifying their criminal behaviours.
In the religious setting, depraved ‘pastors’, ‘alfas’ and traditionalists create a home and benefit from yahoo-boyism proceeds.
Moral teachings have given way to materialistic Pentecostalism.
There is a viral video where some boys were shown spraying money while those who appeared to be shepherds in a supposed white garment church enjoyed the moment while the captive members of the church, led by their female youth wing recorded the shameful scene.
A child born in 1999 when Nigeria returned to democracy is now 21 years old.
Sadly, they grew up to appreciate lying as a way of life from the mouth of politicians (and in many cases from home) who deceive people to vote for them and do not fulfil or jettison the campaign promises.
Lying itself is the foundation of the sociology of hushpuppism.
As the Yoruba maxim goes, eni tó paró á jalè (he who are will to steal) and this is why lying and deception underlie cyber-victimisation.
Youths are daily being socialised to corruption and fraud by those holding public offices.
They see how their systems provide a soft landing for  fraudulent persons (public or private).
Do they ask how many fraud and corruption allegations have been fully investigated and discharged with punishment when the accused are found guilty?
The majority of the cases ended with ‘off-the-mic’ like the Nigeria Delta Development Commission (NDDC) case ended as a ‘family affair’.
The youths see flamboyant lifestyles being celebrated amidst the squalor.
They see how once poor political aspirants transform into millionaires within months of inauguration.
They see how traditional institutions have become cash and carry in awarding chieftaincy titles.
Tertiary educational institutions, with few exceptions, award undeserving honours in exchange for money.
All those who mismanaged funds are provided with a soft landing.
Added to this list of cultures nurturing cybercrimes are the lyrical glamorisation of cybercrimes by some popular Nigerian musicians who present cyber-criminality as ‘work and game’ that everyone is involved in and not a ‘crime’.
If we elect fraudsters as legislators, will they make laws against the crime they are involved in?
The process of giving party nomination to the highest bidders by party leaders needs to be reviewed if we are to stop importing ‘problematic tokunbo’ products into our already morally bankrupt political system.
It is unfortunate that the critical reasoning of party leaders is lowered when money is dangled in their eyes.
They provide a platform for dubious characters to cover up their tracks and our society is worse off through their actions.
Greed also nurtures cyber-criminality.
FBI agent investigating Rufai, Donald Voiret stated that “greed is a powerful motivator.
Unfortunately, the greed alleged to this defendant affects all taxpayers”.
Moving forward, we cannot live in sin and expect grace to abound.
Nigeria must sanitise her anti-corruption system and emplace an accountability policy that tracks lifestyle with material accumulations.
We must give the youth hope in Nigeria by creating employment opportunities, reduce poverty and review reward systems.
The EFCC needs to invest in technology and expose its detectives to modern cybercrime investigation procedures.
The Commission needs to conclude investigations before arresting suspects as done by the FBI before arresting Ramoni Abbass ‘hushpuppi’ and Abidemi Rufai ‘Sandy Tang’.
Unless the cultures sustaining cybercrimes in Nigeria are tackled through social engineering, cyber-criminality will continue to fester.
Dr Tade, a sociologist wrote this piece via dotad2003@yahoo.com

DRC president Tshisekedi assumes chair of African Union
President of the Democratic Republic of Congo, Felix Tshisekedi assumes chair of the African Union on Saturday.
His assumption of office is on the first day of the 34th Ordinary Session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Governments in Addis Ababa.
He succeeds South African president Cyril Ramaphosa, as the organization’s rotating chairperson.
The AU will be looking to address the “devastating impact of COVID-19” on the continent.
The Union’s
official theme for 2021 is “Arts, Culture, and Heritage: Levers for Building the Africa We Want”.
“Despite country and continent-wide control measures, the impact of COVID-19 has imposed enormous human, financial and socio-economic costs on the African People,” Tshisekedi said.
“This crisis, however, also gives us the chance to re-examine our socio-economic priorities and work towards a sustainable and inclusive economic growth which allows African women and girls to contribute to our societies to the fullest.
We must be more self-reliant and find collective solutions to our problems.”
The DRC during its term as head of the Union is looking to “elevate African voices”, Tshisekedi said.
It will also focus on sustainable development “by and for” Africa.
“We will work to ensure their integral well-being, peace and security, health care and a strong response against COVID-19, as well as food security.
“Agricultural transformation, education, gender equality, climate justice, the free movement of people and goods, and freedom of speech and religion, as well as the enhancement of our common heritage: languages, and memorial sites of the history of African people, will also be at the centre of our agenda,” the president added.

Fresh crisis in Lagos PDP over LG polls
A fresh crisis is brewing in the Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over the release of guidelines for the conduct of the forthcoming local government elections by the state Chairman, Engr Deji Doherty.
Engr Doherty who has been in a running battle with most of his colleagues in the State Working Committee (SWC), leading to his suspension recently, released the guidelines on Friday.
It would be recalled that the State Independent Electoral Commission (LASIEC) had released the timetable for the elections scheduled to hold on Saturday, July 24, 2021.
Amid the lingering internal strife in the state PDP, the chairman released the guidelines which, it was learnt, did not go down well with most of the executive members who said they were not carried along.
A member of the state executive said the timetable was unilaterally planned and released by the chairman without the input of other executive members.
It was further learnt that the other factions of the party opposed to Doherty may counter the embattled chairman this week over the release of the guidelines.
The executive member who spoke on condition of anonymity said the position of the aggrieved members would be made public during the week, insisting that key members of the executive were sidelined.

How it feels to give birth during the pandemic
By Dil Afrose Jahan
When there is news of death everywhere, a new life brings happiness and hope
On January 1, 2020, a new morning, two red lines changed my life.
I was pregnant and happy.
It was an amazing start to a new year.
It was the most remarkable year of my life.
All of a sudden, everything changed.
My daughter Roshomon Tara was born at the end of the first lockdown in Dhaka, Bangladesh; she is now nine months old.
She is the reason I became a mother in the middle of a global crisis.
It was not only her who was born, but it was also a “new” me, mother of Tara, who spent an entire pregnancy in lockdown at home and gave birth in an emergency condition within the “emergency.”
Tara has seen the world with masks and isolation.
Her grandmothers were also afraid of holding her or coming closer to her without wearing a mask.
If there were no pandemic, my journey into motherhood would be completely different.
This Mother’s Day is very special as my daughter is now in front of me, smiling and staring at me.
Last Mother’s Day, she was growing inside me.
The only thing that didn’t change, meanwhile, is the pandemic.
I was 16 weeks pregnant when the pandemic struck, and the planet went into lockdown.
I was struggling to survive the pandemic with my hormonal and physical changes.
Those 22 weeks were no less than a war.
My husband Sina Hasan is a musician, and all his concerts were cancelled at that time.
I am a freelance journalist since January 1, 2020.
So, we were depending on what I had saved over the years, and spent all my savings.
Our parents and two journalists’ associations came forward to help for the time being.
I was afraid of everything.
Most of the time, it was like death
was knocking at the door.
I was adapting to a “new” online life where we clicked and got our things home-delivered.
I had to wait for a week to get groceries delivered this way.
I was even afraid to send the only family member living with me — my husband — to go outside and buy food for storage.
Thus, I was eating less.
Besides, I could not go for my scheduled antenatal check-ups.
And I was not sure if my baby was growing healthy or all development was taking place timely.
I was sorry for my unborn child, that I was bringing her into a more different world than ever.
Tele-medication helped me to pass some hard times during the last trimister.
I forgot my gynaecologist’s face.
I cannot remember how she looked without the PPE.
I needed information about risks, precautions, and how I could get emergency medical help.
Lots of information was floating around.
Within this chaos of information, experienced mothers, my mother, and mother-in-law could only help me by supporting me and not meeting me in person when I was pregnant.
Traditionally, experienced mothers and mostly older women in the family help new mothers with their experience and observation.
I have had several panic attacks due to a lack of information and understanding.
So, I dug for the experience of new mothers who gave birth during this time.
I found social media as a lifeline.
I read many exciting experiences on social media — while following a group of more than 100,000 pregnant and lactating mothers who supported each other to survive the pandemic.
Different media groups on this platform have helped more than 100,000 pregnant and lactating mothers by sharing their experience and information during the lockdown.
One of these groups helped me find a health care facility to do an emergency ultrasound after heavy bleeding during the lockdown.
Another group helped me curb my anxiety during pregnancy and post-partum depression.
I was upset that I couldn’t meet my parents, relatives, or friends to share the joy of welcoming a new member in the family.
My daughter was born on August 25, 2020, at the same hospital, Azimpur Maternity, where I was born decades ago.
And she met another child in person when she was four months old on December 31, 2020, when Tara and her father went to the rooftop with me to see the fireworks.
Another family with two babies, apparently my next-door neighbour whom I met the first time, also went there to say goodbye to 2020.
Every day was, and is, a gift, considering the recent statistics of increased Covid-19 cases.
When there was news of death everywhere, the new life brought happiness and let hope thrive.
For mothers, it’s no less than winning a war by giving birth to a child during a pandemic and taking care of the infant all alone, confirming the highest safety for their child.
Socially, emotionally, and physically, this time can be challenging.
Thanks to the light in the shining eyes of the babies.
Thanks to my baby, my daughter, for whom I am a mother and a successful fighter who survived this pandemic.
Dil Afrose Jahan was a recipient of the National Geographic Society’s Emergency Fund for Journalists.
This work was supported by the National Geographic Society.

The national question, insecurity and the Asaba declaration
By Segun Tomori
Recently, Southern Nigeria Governors met in Asaba and made some far-reaching resolutions on the state of the nation, which is now famously referred to as the “Asaba Declaration”.
The meeting coming on the heels of worsening insecurity in the country, agitation by some ethnic jingoists and the unending menace of murderous herdsmen generated nationwide attention.
Indeed, the bi-partisan nature of the meeting and the unanimity displayed by the 17 governors showed they meant serious business.
Restructuring within the context of true federalism and the ban on open grazing formed the core of the declaration.
Major highlights include the clamour for state police, devolution of powers, review of revenue formula in favour of federating units and the need for a national dialogue to discuss the national question.
While the foot-dragging of the governors on financial autonomy for state legislature and judiciary is condemnable and runs contrary to the spirit of true federalism to which they clamour, the bulk of their resolutions are actually a cardinal tenet of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to which Gov. El-Rufai- led committee on True Federalism made far-reaching recommendations.
One would have expected the leading lights of APC to take advantage of the bipartisan nature of the Asaba declaration, the overwhelming support of the major opposition party to kick-start the process of addressing the issues.
Instead, we saw attempts at playing to the gallery and in some quarters, subtle censure of the governors.
The El-Rufai Committee had recommended devolution of powers, resource control, state police, local government autonomy and review of revenue formula in favour of federating units among others.
President Buhari had since given support for local government, state legislature and judiciary autonomy through backing amendment of the statutes and issuing Executive Order 010.
Given the state of the nation in which security and the economy have posed grave challenges, these twin sectors should receive the utmost attention, concurrently.
Despite the rating of Nigeria as the country with the highest GDP in Africa, we are yet to make sufficient efforts to translate that to improved standards of living for the majority of our citizens.
Our annual budget of about $35 billion, for instance, is grossly inadequate to cater to the needs of an estimated 220 million Nigerians.
South Africa with about 58 million people had a National budget of almost $75bn in 2019 with her Social Protection Programmes reaching 17m of its population
The efforts of the Buhari administration, though novel and commendable, still represent a drop in an ocean and are not adequate to make the required impact.
This is where devolution of powers and resource control come in.
Solid minerals and natural resources  have no business staying a day longer in the Exclusive list.
Almost all states in the country have commercially viable natural resources that can be exploited to create wealth and generate the needed foreign exchange for the country.
The present system where states come cap in hand to Abuja to collect federal allocations in the country breeds indolence, runs contrary to the principle of true federalism.
Just as the El-Rufai committee proposed, the revenue formula should be reviewed in favour of states since more responsibilities will be added to them.
On state police, the fears of abuse and envisaged excesses by governors is understandable, but like Richie Norton said “To escape fear, you have to go through it, not around it”.
For too long we have gone around fear of abuse of state police, we have tried to turn a blind eye to the obviously overstretched and over-centralised Nigeria Police force that has become not only overly inefficient, but largely a conundrum.
Like Vice-President Osinbajo stated some years ago, “State Police is an idea whose time has come”.
We have to address our fears and overcome it.
One of the ways that can be done is by enacting a legal instrument for the establishment of the State Police Regulatory Commission (SPRC), alongside constitutional amendments that will permit State Police.
It would be similar in functions to the Federal Police Service Commission (PSC) but have wider powers to exercise appointive and regulatory functions.
The ban on open grazing though restated by the governors is not new and forms the fulcrum of the National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP) approved by the National Executive Council (NEC).
The International Crisis Group (ICG) touts the NLTP as “Nigeria’s most comprehensive  effort to date to overhaul the inefficient and grossly underperforming livestock system.
At the core is a strategy to curtail migratory or open grazing and thus lower the risk of conflict between herders and farmers” It, therefore, beggars belief that some myopic, self-acclaimed ethnic champions choose to lampoon the ban on pre-historic, nomadic open grazing.
The federal and state governments should move swiftly to fully implement this novel plan so that we can put the perennial farmers-herders clashes behind us.
The convocation of a National Dialogue, a major demand of the Asaba declaration might not be necessary since there is a report of the 2014 National Conference and recommendations of the Gov. El-Rufai -led APC committee on True Federalism.
Both reports made far-reaching recommendations that our elected governors and their legislators in the National Assembly can reach a consensus on, instead of wasting scarce resources on another jamboree.
On the issue of separatist agitations, there should be modalities for convening a referendum spelt out in the constitution.
It is almost certain that a vast majority of Nigerians want to live together, our differences, notwithstanding.
Doing this will take the sail out of the wind of divisive elements, fanning embers of hate and discord.
The Southern Governors have affirmed their commitment to a United Nigeria on the basis of justice, fairness and equity, so must every patriotic Nigerian.
Though we have challenges like every other country, we must “listen to ourselves”, like US President Joe Biden often says.
Tomori resides in Abuja

Two officers killed as ‘IPOB militants’ set Anambra police station on fire
Barely 24 hours after the newly appointed Commissioner of Police in Anambra, Christopher Adetokumbo Owolabi, resumed duty, gunmen attacked Obosi Police Station in Idemili North local government area of the state and killed two officers.
The gunmen attacked the police station late Wednesday, freeing all detainees before setting the station on fire.
A source within the affected police station said the gunmen in large numbers stormed and attacked the station around 11pm.
He simply identified the deceased officers as Inspectors James and Awalu.
The source said the victims were killed inside a non-functional filling station close to the police station.
The source also said when other police officers on duty noticed unusual movement of the unknown gunmen, they took to their heels while the attackers had a field time burning down the police station.
Meanwhile, the police in Anambra have confirmed the killing of two of their personnel.
DSP Tochukwu Ikenga, the command’s Public Relations Officer (PPRO), who confirmed the attack, said the state Commissioner of Police had dispatched a tactical team for on the spot assessment of the incident.
“The tactical team led by an the Assistant Commissioner of Police was directed to have on the spot assessment of the place.”
“The team was equally told to possibly identify and apprehend the hoodlums that perpetrated the the attack,” he said.
Ikenga, who added that the bodies of the two killed policemen have been deposited at a nearby morgue, said investigation into the matter has begun.

NEPC, Commonwealth collaborate on production of professional service export data
The Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC) and the Commonwealth Secretariat London are collaborating to produce reliable data on export of professional services in Nigeria.
Speaking at the inaugural meeting of the National Consultative Committee on the International Trade-in-Services (NCCITS) held under the auspices of the Commonwealth Secretariat London, the Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer of the NEPC, Mr. Olusegun Awolowo, said Nigeria has no readily accessible and reliable data or statistics on trade-in-services.
Awolowo said there had been previous attempts to create awareness on the Trade-in-Service sector of the economy, including the creation of the National Strategy for Export of Professional Services in 2010.
“The Commonwealth in 2016 assisted Nigeria to develop a road-map for the service sector,” he said.
The NEPC boss said the current focus of collaboration with the Commonwealth Secretariat is on data/statistics collection and management.
“This is critical to our export effort as this would fill the gaps in collecting or capturing data from relevant institutions in order to generate analyse and use statistical information on Trade-in-Services in line with the global trend,” he said.

NITDA, firm to launch tech startup fund July
The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) and a United States-based firm Mass Challenge have signed an agreement to financially support between 10 and 15 start-ups from July, to reach their full potential within 12 months.
Director General of NITDA, Kashifu Inuwa Abdullahi said this on Tuesday during a virtual media stakeholder engagement with officials of MassChallenge.
“The initiative is designed to identify and accelerate top start-ups based in Nigeria and grow their businesses to serve the Nigerian and global market”, Abdullahi said.
The NITDA DG who said the initiative would be launched in July added that it would improve tech innovation and entrepreneurship across the country.
“A vibrant start up ecosystem is highly critical to the future of our country
and it’s
vital to finding solutions to our various challenges.
Innovation is a prominent way of creating prosperity for all and lifting countries out of poverty.”
The CEO of MassChallenge, Siobhan Dullea, said the firm had supported over 2,900 start-ups in 54 countries across the world and that these firms have generated $3.6 billion revenue and created 86,000 jobs.

Kidnapppers abduct 2 women in Abuja council
Kidnappers have abducted two women, Christiana Isa Attah and Favor David, behind Anguwar Kpokpolobi community in Naharati, Abaji Area Council, FCT.
Mother of the two victims, Mrs. Ruth Attah, a retired school teacher, told our reporter at her residence yesterday, that the incident happened around midnight on Saturday.
She said she was asleep and her daughters were in their room when the kidnapppers entered the house after scaling through the low fence.
She said they broke one of the windows and went to the room where her two daughters were asleep  and bundled them away at gunpoint.
“When the girls noticed that the kidnapppers were breaking down the window,  they ran to my room to hide, but the gunmen followed them to my room and took us away,” she said.
According to her, the kidnappers spared her some few metres away from the house after noticing that she could not trek for long due to her old age.
“It was after we crossed the river and I could no longer trek that the other gang members who were behind me asked me to go back home while they went away with my two daughters,” she added.
A resident of the area, who preferred anonymity, said the kidnappers carried out the operation for over an hour while shooting into the air to scare people from engaging them.
“No security man came here when the kidnapppers were shooting into the air for over one hour,” he said.
Daily Trust learnt that until that fateful day, the woman and her children had always passed the night at neighbours’ house and returned home in the morning for fear of kidnappers as her house was just few metres away from a river.
It was also gathered that one of the woman’s daughters, who is a class teacher in the area, was preparing for her wedding next month.
The spokesperson of the FCT police command, ASP Maryam Yusuf, did not pick calls or reply to a text message sent to her phone to confirm the latest kidnap incident in the area.

Why I’m in race for Anambra  gov’ship — Anglican Priest
An Anglican Priest, Rev Godwin Okonkwo, has said he is in the race for the November governorship election in Anambra State because he wants to bring the fear of God and knowledge of prudent use of resources to bear on governance in the state.
Okonkwo who spoke with Daily Trust on Wednesday shortly after addressing his supporters in Awka, the Anambra State capital, said the state was lagging behind in terms of good governance.
“The people who are there now have not brought to bear in managing the resources of Anambra State for the good of Anambra people.
I believe we can do better in managing the state resources.
It is high time we moved from a lukewarm attitude of leadership to good leadership.
“I am in APC now to change the poor outing of the party in the state over the years,” he said.

Barty beats Kvitova to set up last-four clash with Badosa
Ashleigh Barty will take on Paula Badosa in the semifinals of the Madrid Open after beating Petra Kvitova 6-1, 3-6, 6-3 on Wednesday.
World No 1 Barty is chasing her fourth singles title of the year after her triumph in Stuttgart 10 days ago.
In the last four she faces the woman who knocked her out in the quarterfinals in Charleston in early April.
On Wednesday, the Australian came out on top against two-time Wimbledon champion and 2015 and 2018 Madrid winner Kvitova.
Wildcard Badosa became the first Spanish woman in the tournament’s 12-year history to make the semis with her 6-4, 7-5 win over eighth seed Belinda Bencic.

22 Pharaoh mummies on parade in Egypt
Twenty-two pharaoh mummies walked the streets of Cairo on Saturday evening in a stunning royal procession from the Egyptian Museum on Tahrir Square to the new National Museum of Egyptian Civilization (NMEC) in Fustat.
The event marked the official launch of NMEC.
Against the backdrop of fireworks, the mummies – 18 kings and four queens – travelled in order of age on purpose-built gold-colored pharaonic chariots, equipped with an air ride suspension system to absorb vibrations, and bearing the name of their occupants in Arabic, English, and hieroglyphics.
Seqenenre Tao II, who reigned over Upper Egypt around 1,600 BCE, led the parade, while Ramses IX, who ruled in the 12th century BCE, brought up the rear.
In line with strict international standards for the transport of artifacts, the royal remains were placed in state-of-the-art sterile display cases to guarantee their immaculate preservation.
Accompanying the mummies were 60 motorcycles, 150 horses, and a pharaonic music ensemble conducted by renowned Egyptian maestro Nader Abbassi.
The procession commenced with a 21-gun salute, circled the obelisk at the nearby Tahrir Square, and then proceeded along the Nile to NMEC, where Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi personally welcomed the mummies to their new permanent home in Fustat, the National Museum of Egyptian Civilization.
The 40-minute parade drew participation of 12 Egyptian celebrities, being broadcast by 200+ global TV channels.
The priceless artifacts will spend the next two weeks in NMEC’s laboratory, where they will be prepared for installation inside the Royal Mummies Hall, modeled on the Valley of the Kings.
The Royal Mummies Hall will open to visitors on April 18, coinciding with World Heritage Day.
To promote its launch, NMEC offers a 50 percent discount on entry ticket prices to the Central Exhibition Hall for all visitors from April 4 to 17.
In addition, representatives of local and international media have the opportunity to photograph and film the artifacts inside the Central Exhibition Hall for free on April 4 and 5.
Overlooking Ain Al Sira in the heart of the historical city of Fustat near the Babylon Fortress, NMEC is one of the largest and most important archeology museums in the world, and the first to span the entirety of the Egyptian civilization.
[ AETOS Wire ]

Uproar in Kano prison over illicit drugs
There was pandemonium in Kano central prison at Kurmawa on Thursday evening over illicit drugs.
The uproar is said to have started when the prison warders detected and seized cannabis, allegedly brought to the inmates Thursday evening.
When contacted, the Public Relations Officer of the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS) in Kano state, Musbahu Lawal Kofar Nasarawa, confirmed the issue, adding that they have already set up a committee to find out how the cannabis got into the centre.
He said, “Someone brought cannabis to the prisoners and our operatives confiscated it, so they started an uproar, asking for us to give them.
“We have already set up a committee to find out how such an illicit drug got into the house; whether it was put in some of the food brought to the prisoners or someone connived with our operatives.
“The action has nothing with jailbreak, it is just an uproar we have already reinforced order back to the custodial centre,” he added.
There were rumours however that the prisoners wanted to break the jail in their attempt to escape while resisting the food they say they are being served to break their fast, despite collecting huge donations from philanthropists.
The NCoS spokesperson however debunked the rumours, describing them as baseless.
Daily Trust reports that the over 100 years prison situated at Kurmawa area, just behind Emir’s Palace in the metropolis is the biggest custodial centre in the state.

FG seeks global action against terrorism, drug trafficking
The federal government has urged world leaders to strengthen international cooperation as part of efforts to successfully combat terrorism and drug trafficking as well as other forms of crimes.
This is even as Nigeria expressed concerns over the incidence of illicit financial flows from developing to developed economies of the world.
These were parts of the positions presented by Nigeria at the ongoing conference by the United Nations Commission on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, taking place in Vienna, Austria.
Spokesman of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Femi Babafemi, quoted the Chairman/Chief Executive of the agency, Brig-Gen.
Mohamed Buba Marwa (Retd), who presented Nigeria’s positions on items 6C and 7 at the meeting as saying that while nations deepen cooperation and strengthen the processes of combating the financing of terrorism and prevention of terrorists from benefitting from ransom payments, it was also important for them not to overlook the trafficking in illicit drugs.
“It is also imperative to keep an eye on and control the proliferation of illicit traffic in narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and other substances of abuse that serve as conflict multipliers leading to escalation of both the scope and intensity of violent activities.
“Nigeria is also worried about the existing and growing links between terrorism and other forms of crime such as corruption, illicit financial flows, money laundering, illicit trafficking in drugs, cybercrime, trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants,” Marwa said.
Delivering Nigeria’s statement on item 6C on Wednesday, Marwa said that as nations renew their desire to improve international cooperation to address all forms of crimes, “Nigeria urges all states, once again, to make sincere efforts, to address the root causes, which include; poverty, economic deprivation, inequality, drug abuse, and other socio-economic factors.
While presenting the country’s statement on item 7 on Thursday, Marwa said, “Nigeria notes with great concern the incidence of illicit financial flows, which go through the financial systems annually, particularly from developing to developed economies.
“To dissuade the perpetrators of this anomaly, including financial institutions who act as enablers, state parties should ensure that illicit financial flows, when tracked, do not remain in the custody of enabling financial institutions but should be transferred into an escrow account, preferably in development banks pending return to countries of origin.
“In this regard, we call for the implementation of the recommendations of the FACTI panel in support of asset recovery and the agenda 2030 for sustainable development.”

Timipre Sylva, Kurfi celebrate Chelsea’s Champions League victory
Two prominent Nigerians, the former Governor of Bayelsa State and present Minister of State for Petroleum, Mr. Timipre Marlin Sylva and the Chairman of Katsina State Football Association, Alhaji Aminu Balele Kurfi were in celebratory mood on Sunday minutes after Chelsea football club won their second UEFA Champions League title.
In an all English finals, former champions Chelsea stunned Manchester City 1-0 at the Estadio
do Dragao in Porto to win their second trophy.
Kai Havertz, one of the expensive additions from last Summer, scored the decisive goal just before half-time to inflict a third consecutive defeat on Pep Guardiola’s City.
Moments after the match, the former governor tweeted “I supported Chelsea FC for UCL trophy, and it came at no regrets.
Congrats Blues.”
Kurfi who watched proceedings in Abuja along with Sylva said he created time to watch the match with the former Bayelsa State governor to support and celebrate with him after the match.
“I had to go and support him because he is an avid fan of Chelsea.
I am also happy that in the end, he had cause to celebrate.
Not many people are aware that His Excellency Timipre Sylva is passionate about sports, especially football.
“On my part, as the Chairman of Katsina State Football Association, I am a father to all supporters of the different clubs in my state.
“I was with Chelsea from where I was loaned to Katsina United.
From United, I was loaned to Kurfi Tigers FC and at the moment, I am for every club,” said Kurfi on a lighter mood.

Uganda election: President Museveni in early lead, rival alleges fraud
President Yoweri Museveni took an early lead in Uganda’s presidential election, according to preliminary results released on Friday morning by the electoral commission.
This is as his main rival said he had proof that the poll had been marred by fraud.
With 29.4 per cent of votes from Thursday’s ballot counted, Museveni had won 1,852,263 votes, or 63.9 per cent while main opposition candidate Bobi Wine had 821,874 or 28.4 per cent, the commission said just after 11.00 a.m. (0800 GMT).
Wine alleges fraud  
Wine, a singer-turned-lawmaker who has galvanised young Ugandans with calls for political change, told a news conference on Friday he had filmed proof of fraud during voting and that he wanted a peaceful outcome to the vote.
He had said in a tweet early in the day that he was confident of victory despite “widespread fraud and violence’’.
Museveni, who has led the East African country with a population of nearly 46 million for 34 years, had not made any statement by noon.
(0900 GMT).
Internet blackout
On Wednesday, the government ordered an internet blackout until further notice, a day after banning all social media and messaging apps.
Wine and his supporters used Facebook to relay live coverage of his campaigns and news conference after he said many media outlets had declined to host him.
The election campaign was marred by deadly crackdowns by security forces on opposition candidates and their supporters.
Uganda’s normally bustling capital Kampala was quiet on Friday, a public holiday after Thursday’s poll, with shops mostly closed.
Soldiers patrolled on foot in the rain in a suburb visited by Reuters.
Commission head, Simon Byabakama, assured the nation on live TV on Thursday evening after polls closed that results were arriving at the national tally centre despite the nationwide internet blackout.
“We are not using local internet to transmit our results, we are using our own system,’’ he said, without giving details of that system.
“Don’t worry, results will come,’’
Byabakama added (NAN)

New wave of pandemic hits more of Japan’s prefectures
Japan is set to expand the current state of emergency to three more prefectures, the government said on Friday,
This is as the coronavirus infections continued to hit wider regions of the country ahead of this summer’s Tokyo Olympics.
The prefectures of Hokkaido, Okayama and Hiroshima were likely to be under the measure from Sunday to the end of May, Economic Revitalisation Minister, Yasutoshi Nishimura, told reporters.
A panel of experts endorsed the proposal, said Nishimura, who was in charge of the government’s coronavirus response.
The northern island of Hokkaido reported a record 712 new infections on Thursday while the western prefecture of Hiroshima also saw a record 219 new cases on Wednesday.
Surging infections prompted Hiroshima and Okayama to cancel next week’s torch relay on their public roads.
International Olympic Committee President, Thomas Bach, was scheduled to participate in a torch relay event in Hiroshima on May 17.
However, Bach’s travel to Japan ahead of the Games has been postponed, local organisers said.
The postponement is coming as the government extended the state of emergency in Tokyo and three other prefectures until the end of May and added two more regions Aichi, Fukuoka to the measure.
The government declared the state of emergency in the four prefectures in late April, requesting bars and restaurants refrain from serving alcohol and offering a karaoke service.
Experts warned of the rapid spread of more contagious variants, especially as the roll-out of coronavirus vaccines has been extremely slow in Japan since its launch in mid-February.
Only one per cent of Japan’s
125 million populations have been fully vaccinated.
(dpa/NAN)

Jigawa’s mechanised farm to benefit local farmers
The Malam Alu Agro Allied Company, a farm sitting on a 100-hectare land in Faru village, along Maiduguri road, Birnin Kudu Local Government Area of Jigawa State, is changing the perception of mechanised farming in Nigeria, Mansur Da’u Aliyu, the company’s Group General Manager (GGM) said.
The establishment of the farm almost five years ago, it was gathered, was a direct response to the call by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration for Nigerians to return to agriculture as the mainstay of the nation’s economy, rather than relying solely on oil as the only source of revenue for the country.
Each cattle has a number tag attached to its ear
The company’s founder, Farouk Adamu Aliyu, a former member of the House of Representatives keyed into this, the GGM added.
“We do greenhouse farming.
We have a 10,000 square-metre fully automated soilless greenhouse, where we produce tomatoes.
We also have two 250 square-metre greenhouses where we produce other greenhouse vegetables, and another 500 square-metre greenhouse, which is being used as a nursery.
These greenhouses are all foreign-oriented, which have been installed to produce a variety of vegetables.
We produce only tomatoes from the 10,000 square automated soilless greenhouses; and we produce an average of 10 to 11 tons of tomatoes every week.
We also have another 10,000 square-metre locally fabricated greenhouse.
We also have a livestock section, where we have about 300 herds of cattle, some camels, goats and sheep,” he said.
Daily Trust gathered that the farm also has a fishery unit, with about 50,000 fishes inside the pond.
Similarly, a forty-ton per hour fertilizer blending plant installed earlier in the year, it was gathered, now produces close to 300 loads of NPK fertilizer under the Presidential Fertilizer Initiative.
“We have also imported equipment for the installation of 120,000 capacity poultry system.
We hope to be producing between 3,000-4,000 crates of eggs daily,” Mansur said.
The farm, he said, also has a diary production plant, which is for the production of about 2,000 litres of milk a day, adding that there are also about 150-200 hectares of land elsewhere meant for open field farming for real cultivation of rice and other crops.
Mansur disclosed that the major clientele for the tomato are premium customers, notably big hotels in Abuja, Lagos, and some other locations.
He confirmed, however, that the main market for the products was mainly in the eastern part of the country, such as Enugu, Onitsha, Owerri.
He admitted, however, that besides the few customers they have in Kano, their tomato products are rarely seen in the local markets for some reason.
First is the fact that the tomato produced from the farm is of special species and the second reason is the fact that Jigawa is a major tomato-producing area.
“You know that tomato is a common product around here, so our price is a little higher than what is obtained normally in the open market.
So, essentially, people don’t actually look at us, they feel apprehensive of what we have because they believe they are expensive.
And when you have a product that is commonly available, people will surely go for the cheaper brand.”
A farm hand feeds the fishes
Asked of the average lifespan of their tomato products, he said, “If you give the tomato all it requires, I mean nutritional supplements you feed it with while it is growing, if you give it all those things, this tomato could last up to three weeks post-harvest.
But even without that, it lasts for a minimum of a week, not under any refrigeration, but surely not under intense pressure and heat.
You can keep it on the table where you have good ventilation.
It can last an average of 10 days, but with everything provided as required (all nutrients) it could last up to one month.
This we have experimented, but then, you don’t get it as you always want it.”
The farm is also a source of employment for as many as 200 people in the village where it is located.
He also said the company got some people to train the youth in the area on information technology skills.
He further said most of the equipment used on the farm were imported from Turkey, except the fertilizer-blending machine, which was imported from China.
“Even the farming method is modeled after the Turkish style of operation because we have a Turkish partner that is helping in maintaining the standards,’’ he said, but quickly added that the company was conscious of the need to have Nigerians run the technical aspect of its operations.
Reflecting on the effect of COVID-19 on the operations of the company, Mansur said, Malam Alu, just like other corporate entities in the country, suffered from the devastating effects of the virus.
For Mansur, youths in Nigeria have no excuse to remain unemployed with the opportunity provided by agriculture, noting that those hoping to secure a white-collar job should adjust to the reality and go back to agriculture.
He believes Nigeria is now doing what it ought to have done a long time ago, noting that if the country had taken this step, the current economic crisis would have been averted.

2023: Lawmaker seeks better deal for Southern Kaduna
The member representing Jaba Constituency in the Kaduna State House of Assembly, Samson Monday Dikko, has called on people of goodwill to come together and map out strategies that would salvage the Southern Kaduna Senatorial District and its people in 2023.
Speaking after a meeting with stakeholders in Kagoro, Kaura Local Government Area of Kaduna State at the weekend, Dikko, who is aspiring to be a senator on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said “Southern Kaduna people have been abandoned by those who ought to take care of them.
“This is the time for the entire Southern Kaduna people to get it right.
“We need to transform our region and improve security, education, health, agriculture, economy, employment and empowerment for the teeming youths in conjunction with reputable non-governmental organizations,” he added.
The Director-General of the Dikko Campaign Organisation, Timothy Chindo Kwassam, said the destiny of the people of Kaduna South Senatorial District would be in their own hands “if Dikko represents them at the Senate in 2023.”
“For everything under the sun, there is a season.
So, the coming of Dikko at this critical period of time is not a mere coincidence, but a divine plan by God to liberate the region from all that has hindered it from growing and competing with other regions,” Kwassam said.

3 Africans, no Nigerian as City, Chelsea contest UEFA Champions League finals
Without doubt, enthusiastic football fans in Nigeria are eagerly awaiting tonight’s finals of the 2020/2021 UEFA Champions League finals to be contested between two English clubs, Manchester City and Chelsea at the Estadio do Dragao, Porto in Portugal.
In view of the fact that the UEFA Champions League is one of the world’s biggest football competitions only next to the FIFA World Cup and the Olympics football event, there is increasing level of expectations as the giants of the English Premier League get set to tussle for the prestigious diadem.
While Manchester City are yet to win the Champions League title, Chelsea won their first and only title so far in 2012.
Therefore, even as football pundits have tipped City who have just won their seventh Premiership title to win tonight, Chelsea will be coming into the contest with better credentials.
They are former champions.
However, while Thomas Tuchel who leads the Chelsea technical crew is yet to taste Champions League victory, his opponent in the Manchester City dugout, Pep Guardiola is a two time winner.
He won it in 2009 and 2010 with Barcelona.
Therefore, there is so much to expect from the actors who will be out there on the field of Estadio
do Dragao in Porto and the men in charge of the technical areas.
Interestingly, even as both contestants parade only three African players in Riyad Mahrez (Algeria, Manchester City), Hakim Ziyech (Morococo, Chelsea) and Edourad Menday (
Senegal, Chelsea) Africans’ interest in the finals has dropped.
Here in Nigerian where Chelsea and Manchester City enjoy a large following from passionate football fans, expectations have reached feverish point, leading to interesting re-alignments.
Fans of those European clubs that were eliminated from the Champions League at different stages have re-aligned themselves with either Chelsea or Manchester City based on divergent interests.
Consequently, the finals is one of the most discussed topics in sporting circles in Nigeria at the moment as fans of the Premiership clubs continue to predict what would be the final result.
However, while almost everyone is waiting to savour the football artistry that is possibly going to be on display, some pundits are worried by the increasing decline in the number of African players in the finals of one of the biggest football competitions on earth.
Going by the history of the UEFA Champions League, only 24 African footballers have contested and won the trophy with their European clubs.
Sadly African football  legends like Liberia’s George Weah who was voted World Footballer of the year in 1995,
Nigeria’s Rashidi Yekini, Egypt’s Mohamed Aboutrika, Roger Mila of Cameroon, Jay-Jay Okocha, Sunday Oliseh, Taribo West and Victor Ikpeba of Nigeria, Rigobert Song of Cameroon and Hassam Hassan of Egypt failed to win the Champions League despite their football prowess.
Although Mo Salah (Egypt), Sadio Mane (Senegal), Joel Matip (Cameroon) and Naby Keita (Guinea) were on the big stage when Liverpool won their 6th UEFA Champions League title in 2019, the first African to have won the trophy was Bruce Grobbelaar of Zimbabwe.
He achieved the feat in 1984 with Liverpool.
He was followed by Algerian legend Rabah Madjer who won it with FC Porto in 1987 and Abedi Pele (Ghana) in 1993 with Olympique Marseille before Nigeria’s
duo of George Findi and Nwankwo Kanu lifted it with Ajax Amsterdam in 1995.
It is also on record that Geremi Njitap of Cameroon was the first African to win the title twice in 2000 and 2002 with Spanish giants Real Madrid before Samuel Eto’o of Cameroon won it thrice with Barcelona 2006, 2009 and 2010 with Inter Milan.
Other African winners of the highly coveted trophy are Ibrahim Tanko (Ghana)
Borussia Dortmund 1997, Samuel Kuffour (Ghana) Bayern Munich 2001, Benni McCarthy (South Africa) FC Porto 2004, Djimi Traore (Mali
) Liverpool 2005, Yaya Toure (Cote d’Ivoire)
Barcelona 2009 & 2011, Seydou Keita (Mali) Barcelona 2009 & 2011, Sully Muntari (Ghana)
Inter Milan 2010 and McDonald Mariga (Kenya) 2010.
John Mikel Obi (Nigeria), Michael Essien (Ghana), Salomon Kalou (Cote d’Ivoire), Didier Drogba (Cote d’Ivoire) who won it with Chelsea in 2012 and Achraf Hakimi (Morocco), with Real Madrid 2018 complete the list of Africans who have won the UEFA Champions League.
Coming closer home, the last time a Nigerian won the trophy was in 2012 when Mikel Obi was among the quartet of Africans who lifted it with Chelsea at the expense of Bayern Munich.
After that achievement by the former captain of the Super Eagles, Nigeria has seen the rise of other immensely talented players like Ahmed Musa, Wilfred Ndidi, Kelechi Iheanacho, Alex Iwobi, William Troost-Ekong, Leon Balogun, Ola Aina, Isaac Success, Chigozie Awaziem, Tyrone Ebuehi, Moses Simon and lately Victor Osimhen
but none is yet to feature in the finals of Europe’s biggest club competition.
The reason for this is not farfetched.
The competition is dominated by the top five clubs in Europe, Real Madrid, Bayern Munich, Barcelona, Manchester United and Liverpool.
Unfortunately, Nigerian players have over the years failed to get into these highly rated European clubs.
It is, therefore, the hope of Nigerian football stakeholders that in no distant future the new generation of players will break all barriers and begin to play for clubs that have potential to win the UEFA Champions League.
If this fails, then football fans in Nigeria will continue to live with the agony of watching finals of the UEFA Champions League come and go without the presence of any Nigerian player.
As Nigerians wait for the next Super Eagles player who will rise to the pinnacle of European club competition the way Find George, Nwankwo Kanu did with Ajax in 1995 and Chelsea’s Mikel Obi in 2012, the 2021 all English clubs finals is a few hours away.
In the end, victory will go to either the Manchester club who are in the hunt for their first title or the Londoners who are primed for a second title and the most watched football league in the world, the English Premiership will be the ultimate winner.

Enyimba force FC IfeanyiUbah to 2-2 draw in ‘Oriental derby’
Enyimba FC came from behind to secure a well deserved 2-2 draw in their rescheduled Week 14 fixture against ‘Oriental brothers’ FC IfeanyiUbah at the Aba International Stadium, Aba,
The ‘Oriental Derby’ saw Enyimba make three changes to the team that lost at Rivers United on Sunday.
Sadiq Abubakar returned after weeks of layoff while Anthony Omaka and Victor Mbaoma were restored to the starting lineup.
The first 28 minutes of the game saw both sides seeking to hit first but the visiting side drew the first blood in the 29th minute through Saidu Adamu who poked home from close range after Uche Onuoha had headed Evans Ogbonda’s cross to his path.
With the away side in full control of the game, their confidence grew more leaving the hosts scrambling to get back into the game as the first half ended 1-0 in favour of the visitors.
At the restart of the second half, IfeanyiUbah continued to press for the second goal and were duly rewarded when Saidu Adamu got his brace after getting Awazie’s square pass over the line in the 61st minute.
Stung to life by the second goal, Enyimba began to throw in everything in their arsenal to get back into the game.
In the 78th minute, their pressure paid off when Reuben Bala reduced the deficit for Enyimba in a rather fortuitous fashion.
His initial header was kept out by Sharp Uzoigwe but the ball ricocheted back to him and over the line.
The goal gave Enyimba some hope as they continued to press in numbers to at least secure a point
and this they got in the 90th minute through Imoh Obot.
Following this result, Enyimba have moved up to 5th position with 31 points from 17 games with two more outstanding matches.
Meanwhile, FC IfeanyiUbah are still rooted in the relegation zone with 17 points from 19 games.

Farmers apprehensive as planting season begins with erratic rains
As wet season begins in most parts of the country, farmers have commenced, planting, albeit with fear following erratic rains, which may threaten production.
The rains have been unstable in Benue, Nasarawa, Niger, Kaduna and parts of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), and many farmers have planted their crops.
In the 2019/2020 wet season, erratic rains in the North and mid-season draught in the South-West made farmers lose their money due to crop failure.
Musa Yohana and Halima Thomas, farmers in Doma and Lafia, Nasarawa State, said they had planted maize, groundnut and other tuber crops like cassava and yam, but feared they might have another horrible experience like last season when they were forced to plant maize and groundnut two times.
“I lost most of my yams last year due to excessive heat as a result of inconsistent rainfall.
This year, we are in the second week of May but we are yet to have stable rains.
And I have planted 15 measures (about 20kg) of groundnut already.
If it continues like this for another week, I may lose the seeds,” Mr Yohana said.
Like them, many farmers around the FCT have also planted, but the fear of crop failure is heightened by their experiences of last year.
In Benue State, our correspondent reports that farmers have begun to cultivate their lands and plant crops amid complaints of scanty rainfall.
Some farmers who had prepared their farms earlier in the year said they could not start planting crops until one week ago, while others have just begun to till their lands at the wake of rainfall (thrice) within the past two weeks.
A farmer in Otukpo, Ada Hyacinth, said the ground was still too strong to cultivate because the rains hadn’t been frequent.
Another farmer, Felix Tor, in Makurdi, said he had just planted melon and maize on his recently ploughed farm despite the inconsistency of the rains.
Tor, however, expressed fears that the nature of the rainfall might affect the well-being of the crop.
He prayed that the yield would turn out good in the end.
But Vitalis Tarnongu, who is currently ploughing his 1,000 hectares of farmland at the Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi (FUAM), posited that the manner of rainfall this year would require him to begin sowing maize towards the end of May.
Tarnongu said a plant breeder in the university had advised him to wait until May 20 to begin planting his maize because the nature of the rainfall since the season set in suggested that there could be a two-week drought.
The state chairman of the All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), Aondongu Saaku, described farming as a business worth taking risk on.
Saaku said farmers who saw it as business had already taken the risk to plant their crops because without such risk, they won’t reap at the end of the day.
Meanwhile, Dr Teryima Iorlamen, a seed systems specialist at the FUAM, said farmers could go ahead to plant their root and tuber crops in line with the NIMET’s rainfall prediction for this year.
Iorlamen said the period during which the farmers were expected to wait awhile before sowing had gone, stressing that NIMET’s prediction for rainfall pattern in Benue State, which they (experts) work with, indicated that the rains would stabilise in the state between April 18 and 30, 2021.
“We can assure farmers now that the rains have stabilized, according to NIMET predictions.
Anything otherwise now would be dry spell.
“I have advised farmers to check water logging capacity in their fields so that they plant their crops accordingly.
Rice loves much water, so it is not yet time to plant it.
But farmers can go into roots and tubers now, such as yam, cassava, maize and melon.
We believe that the rain have stabilised.

Senate mourns late Army chief, Ahmed Gulak
The Senate, on Tuesday, held a minute silence in honour of the demise of a former presidential aide, Ahmed Gulak, who was gruesomely murdered on Sunday in Owerri, Imo State capital.
This followed a motion by Deputy Senate President and Chairman of the Senate Constitution Review Committee, Ovie Omo-Agege, on the floor of the Red Chamber.
Omo-Agege drew the attention of his colleagues to the assassination of Gulak, who, the lawmaker said, was hired to assist his committee to work on the amendments being sought by Nigerians to the constitution.
Gulak served as a consultant to the committee and was in Owerri for the public hearing on the review of the 1999 constitution.
Though the programme ended on Thursday, Gulak stayed behind and left on Sunday.
He was murdered on his way to the airport in Owerri en route Abuja.
Omo-Agege described Gulak as a detribalised Nigerian, who gave his best to the service of the country.
Also on Tuesday, the Senate urged the federal government to immortalise the late Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru.
The red chamber also observed a one minute silence in honour of Lt. Gen. Attahiru, who died in a plane crash near Kaduna International Airport.
This followed a point of order raised by the Chairman, Senate Committee on Army, Senator Ali Ndume.

NIN/profile code: NANS raises alarm over disenfranchisement of students by JAMB
The Kaduna State Chapter of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) on Tuesday said thousands of candidates would not take part in this year’s Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB)
examination due to hitches in their NIN/Profile code.
The state NANS chairman, Axiz Huziafa Bello, in a statement issued yesterday in Kaduna, disagreed with the JAMB.
Bello called for an extension of the electronic registration instead of risking students’ lives to travel to JAMB headquarters in their respective states for manual registration.
He noted that the news bulletin released on Monday, May 31, 2021, titled ‘Issues surrounding the 2021 UTME registration: Option available for genuine candidates who made attempts but could not register’, showed that the management had failed to show empathy for the hardship and agony of the candidates.
He appealed to prominent Nigerians to prevail on the management of JAMB to desist from unleashing hardship on Nigerian students in their noble quest for higher education and self-development.
He urged the examination body to extend the registration period and postpone the exam in the interest of justice and fairness.

Police arrest 16 suspects over cultism, recover firearms in Enugu
The Police Command in Enugu State has arrested 16 suspects within two weeks, one female inclusive, for cultism and unlawful possession of firearms.
The command also recovered two cut-to-size locally-made guns, one locally-made pistol, two live cartridges, six mobile phones, a powdery substance suspected to be heroin and weeds suspected to be Indian Hemp.
The Command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Daniel Ndukwe, said this in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Enugu.
Ndukwe said that the feat was achieved by joint operations carried out by police operatives attached to 9th Mile Police Division, Anti-Cult Unit and personnel of the Nigerian Army, 82 Division in Enugu.
He said that the joint operation took place between April 19 and May 4, within a span of three council areas in the state.
“They included: Cornelius Uche, 31; Ifeanyi Umeneze, 22; Chijioke Anachuna, 34; Chibuzor Umeayo, 28; Chinedu Okeke, 23; Ozinachi Obadike, 22; Ifeanyi Nwagbo, 27; Chigozie Okeke, 18, and Chikamso Odinwankpa, 18; were all arrested.
“They were arrested on May 4 within Ezeagu Local Government Area following their alleged involvement in bloody cult clashes.
“Others included: Ozor Chidubem, 22; Amina Inalegwu (female), 18; Benard Bright, 20; Ugwu Chidera, 21; Ani Chukwuebuka, 23; and Onoh Obumneme, 20; who were all arrested on April 19 at about 3:30 a.m.
“They were arrested along Enugu-Makurdi Expressway, 9th Mile, Udi L.G.A. on their way to plan and perfect a heinous cult activity, as preliminary investigation reveals.
“Another of the suspect, one Uchenna Aniagozie, 28, was arrested on April 28 for his alleged involvement in a deadly cult clash sometime in January 2021.
“Preliminary investigation shows that they all confessed to being members of Vikings Confraternity,’’ he said.
The police spokesman said that the suspects would be prosecuted accordingly once ongoing investigations into their nefarious activities were concluded.
“To this end, residents of the state have been called upon to remain law-abiding, vigilant and quickly report suspected criminals and their activities to the nearest police station.
“Residents can call the Command’s emergency hotlines on 08032003702, 08075390883, 08086671202 or 08098880172,’’ he added.
(NAN)

How cassava is becoming gold in Benue
In Benue State, farmers are expanding their fields almost every season to increase production as cassava farming becomes a thriving business in all the three senatorial districts.
Although the state is largely known as the highest producer and consumer of yam in the country, cassava consumption now gradually reigns.
As such, more farmers are said to be cultivating cassava.
A cassava farmer in the Gboko area of the state, Titus Atondo, said he started cultivating the crop for many years now.
Atondo said cassava farming posed little or no challenge because farmers only need to spray the farm once to repel weed, then wait for harvest.
“Cassava chips are very expensive now.
I have a large cassava farm where I make money and my family consumes some of the produce,’’ he said.
Faith Ben is now preparing a large expanse of land in the Ugboju area of Otukpo Local Government Area to cultivate cassava as soon as the rain begins, following the high demand of the by-product in her vicinity.
“The demand for cassava is usually high these days.
From the tubers to the processed produce, it has become a money-spinning crop.
That’s why I am going into the farming.
And I am doing so purely for business,’’ she added.
On his part, the state chairman of the All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), Aondongu Saaku, admitted that cassava consumption in the state had become more than yam in recent times.
Saaku said this is because cassava is eaten in varieties, unlike yam.
Meanwhile, the Director of Agric Science in the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Thomas Unongo, explained that cassava farming has been thriving in the state in recent times because no aspect of the crop is wasted.
Unongo, whose farm occupies three and a half hectares in Apir, Makurdi, said that for the past two years, he had been cultivating the land with new varieties of cassava released by the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA).
“Apart from weed control, it is one of the cheapest crops to grow.
Rice production costs between N200,000 and N300,000 per hectare, while yam costs between N150,000 and N200,000 per hectare, but inputs for cassava production for farmers with stems cost only about N150,000.
And where there is light vegetation, it could be as low as N100,000.
It is really cheap and the output/return on investment is one of the highest in Benue now,’’ he said.
Unongo further noted that the challenges of farming cassava in the state hinged on insecurity as herders’ attacks worsened.
He alleged that herders usually removed the stems and tubers for their cattle.
He, however, advised that to get a better yield, one would have to apply weed control three months after planting, stressing that when weeds are allowed to grow in the farm, they invite pests, such as grasshoppers.
He said inputs like fertiliser, herbicides, among others, are necessary, adding that there’s the need to observe farm sanitation, which would help against attacks by rodents.
Unongo maintained that while the conventional old varieties of cassava would last up to two years before harvest, with one-year maturity, the new improved varieties have a maturity period of five and seven months; but the eight months are superb for harvest.
“Cassava farming is turning to gold in Benue because the state is nearer to the North, where the crop is not produced.
Also, the produce, especially garri, is becoming costlier because vendors are everywhere in villages mopping up the chips desired more for the Northern market,’’ he noted.

Start agric revolution now, Bode George, Gen Olanrewaju tell Sanwo-Olu
Prominent Lagos indigenes under the aegis of Ọmọ Eko Pataki have asked Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to immediately begin a move towards revolutionising agriculture in the state.
The indigenes made the call against the backdrop of the recent decision to block food supply to the South by the Amalgamated Union of Food Stuff and Cattle Dealers in Nigeria (AUFCDN).
Reacting to the development yesterday, the group said there was the need for the government to redirect its policies towards broadening agricultural investment in order to enhance food sufficiency in the state.
This was contained in a joint statement by the leader of the group, Chief Bode George, and its trustees, Gen Tajudeen Olanrewaju and Mr Gbadebo Dallas.
The group charged the governor to engage the huge unemployed youths in the state to drive the agricultural revolution.
The statement reads in part: “The recent action of the Amalgamated Union of Food Stuff and Cattle Dealers in Nigeria which halted the convoy of trailers from bringing tomatoes, pepper, onions and all kinds of foodstuff to the South should awaken the leadership of Lagos State to redirect its policies in widening its agricultural investments.
“Lagos State which is naturally our foremost concern as Ọmọ Eko Pataki should henceforth impress into immediate duty a massive workforce of her unemployed youths across the IBILE traditional enclave, whipping our vast and enriched lands into a huge agricultural holding.
“From Ifako-Ijaiye to Imọta, from Epe to the rolling fields to the mangroves of Badagry, Lagos State is blessed with nutrient-rich agricultural fields that can quickly be marshaled into farmlands where various kinds of crops from tomatoes, lettuce, pepper, beans, rice, corn, yam, potatoes, cassava to many others can be planted to enhance our self-sufficiency in food production.
“It is our candid advice to Governor Sanwo-Olu to quickly reorder the state’s priorities in ensuring that our state becomes the new food basket of the country thereby triggering a new agricultural revolution in the state of excellence.”

China to raise proportion of middle-income earners
China’s consumption has been on a continuous rise in recent years, and its consumption structure is also being optimized.
Last year, the country’s total retail sales of consumer goods reached 39.2 trillion yuan ($6 trillion), and final consumption contributed 54.3 per cent to China’s GDP.
As a result, China maintained its position as the second-largest consumption market in the world.
New business forms such as online shopping and influencer marketing experienced rapid development.
In 2020, a total of over 24 million Livestream shows were aired on e-commerce platforms; online sales of national entity bucked the trend and grew 14.8 per cent; the express delivery industry handled 31.2 per cent more parcels than it did a year ago.
China has become the world’s largest market of online retailing for eight consecutive years.
The robust recovery of China’s consumption, despite the severe impacts from COVID-19, showcased the strong resilience and huge development potential of the Chinese market.
As a major force of consumption, the middle-income group is a pillar of the economy.
At present, China has 400 million middle-income earners that account for around 30 per cent of its population.
In developed countries, the distribution of household income is always in an “olive shape” that is sharp at both ends and plump in the middle.
In other words, the middle-income group usually accounts for 60 per cent to 70 per cent of the population in developed countries.
Such a structure is considered healthy and good for economic and social development.
In contrast, China still has a long way to go to expand the size of its middle-income group.
Vice-Minister of Commerce Qian Keming said that with 1.4 billion people, China boasts a super large market and huge development potential.
In the next 15 years, the number of Chinese middle-income earners is expected to reach 800 million, which will generate robust momentum for consumption upgrading and bright prospects.
According to China’s 14th Five-Year Plan, China will work to increase the income for graduates of universities and vocational schools, skilled workers and migrant workers in the next five years.
Experts believe that it’s both possible and necessary to include them in the middle-income group.
Graduates of universities and vocational schools come in huge size and are well educated and skilful, which makes them possible to become middle-income earners.
“Most people from this group, with their degree of education and competence, will not work simple and repetitive jobs, so it’s possible that they become middle-income earners,” Su Hainan, a contract research fellow with China Association for Labor Studies, told People’s Daily during an interview.
According to the latest statistics from the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security (MOHRSS), China has over 200 million skilled workers, who take 26 per cent of its total jobs, up from 20 per cent a few years ago.
More than 50 million of them are highly skilled workers.
In recent years, skilled workers are in a short supply in China, and their income keeps rising.
The MOHRSS recently issued a guideline, encouraging enterprises to institute an annual salary system and offer special awards for skilled talents, especially highly skilled ones.
“Migrant workers are a major part of China’s workforce, many of whom are also well educated and skilful, and are able to work complicated and innovative jobs,” Su said.
Last year, the number of migrant workers in China reached 280 million, including 170 million who worked out-of-town.
The average monthly income of them stood at 4,072 yuan.
Many of them are getting close to the threshold of middle income if calculated in terms of household.
“To make a part of migrant workers middle-income earners is necessary for narrowing the rural-urban income gap, improving the competence of workforce and accelerating rural vitalization, and it’s also feasible to do that,” Su noted.
As the income of these major groups rises in the future, the size of China’s middle-income group will be further expanded, turning the country’s household income distribution into the “olive shape.”
By that time, China’s consumption vitality will have been further activated, and the country will also release more dividends to the world.

Aba agog as maiden Gov Ikpeazu golf tourney tees off
Over 2,500 players from across Nigeria and West Africa are currently vying for laurels in the maiden edition of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu open golf championship which teed off on Wednesday, May 19 and will end on May 23at the famous Aba Golf Course.
The Governor who teed off the tournament charged the players to enjoy the game and also the hospitality of the people.
He said they should find time to visit major shopping centres in Aba to buy memorabilia to take to their respective homes.
The governor also promised to continue to support the sport and assured that his administration will construct a new golf course in Ohafia to further deepen awareness and participation in the game.
He said, “I pray that golf which is a unifying game will continue to unify us in Nigeria and also avail us of the health benefits of engaging in this gentlemen’s game”.
In his remarks, the National Director of Competitions, Professional Golfers Association of Nigeria (PGAN), Johnbull Dangofa informed Ikpeazu that having gone round the historic city, he was pleased with the prevailing peace and the good infrastructure put in place by the governor.
The President of Aba Sports Club, Chief Jerry Kalu, expressed members’ appreciation to the governor for the support given by the state government to ensure the smooth take-off of the competition.
He said more than 250 golfers had registered to take part in the tournament.

A letter to DSS and other intelligence agencies
You guys are supposed to be smart.
I know you evolved from the police – just as did many other agencies.
By splintering from the police you were meant to be cleaner, and smarter, much quicker on your feet.
Is it politics that overcame you guys?
I heard the National Security Adviser, Monguno, for the first time since he was appointed years ago the other day, sounding very eloquent with his Queen’s English.
He should be polished, after all he was one of those privileged ‘ajebutter’ Nigerian children who attended Kings College back in the day.
From his speech I could hear and see an organised mind and an intelligent, functional brain, and I wondered at length why and how Abba Kyari managed to cage such a person while Buhari looked on.
Monguno, later went on to allege that quite a number of the arms and ammunition that Nigeria paid for under the recently ‘ambassadorised’ military chiefs were nowhere to be found.
When he saw that feathers were ruffled, he tried to walk back what he was alleged to have said.
A couple of days after that happened, we heard in the news that Buhari stopped some weapons acquisition he wanted to make from Dubai through third parties.
The report put Monguno in bad light and sought to expose his hypocrisy.
Will we ever find a way out of our insecurity maze?
We are no longer hearing from the leadership of the DSS.
Since the initial gra-gra and controversies they’ve fallen silent.
No one sees or hears from Yusuf Bichi anymore, but we sometimes see smart DSS chaps in dark suits and goggles performing their bodyguard services to the high and mighty.
We even see them on few occasions heavily kitted up like ninjas, complete with balaclavas and some out-of-this-world machine guns.
But that is where it ends.
It seems that the president does not care about the efficacy of the DSS and so they too have ‘jejely’ withdrawn to their cocoon.
There is some politics going on there.
The police, we know their problem; that one is agelong.
I am writing not to draw the attention of these bodies to myself
but well I am available for their attention if they take this personal.
I am writing as a concerned Nigerian citizen.
I’m afraid that there is no intelligence in this country anymore.
I am prompted to write specifically because the nation is totally adrift and even if we accuse the politicians of being asleep at the wheels, it is inexcusable for our intelligence services to also be snoring.
There looks to be a deliberate abandonment of Nigeria into the hands of the elements – kidnappers, secessionists, fake news agents, online terrorists, and other forms of terrorists.
Who does not know that security is won and lost at the level of intelligence?
Whereas Nigeria has come to disrespect the police force, but many still hold the intelligence services in awe as we see them as elite corps.
At least they cannot be seen on the roads collecting money from bus drivers.
However, one can conclude that with the rifeness of crime, and general disintegration of society, the intelligence services have lost their bite and famed prowess, especially under this government.
How can a faceless group named FUNAM be sowing so much discord in the Nigerian society and we have intelligence services feigning ignorance?
Whoever is putting out statements on behalf of FUNAM is certainly playing a childish game on the minds of Nigerians but even professors believe them.
This is because at the end, we are very emotional people in this country.
However, the intelligence services have deliberately looked away while all this has been going on.
I googled ‘statement by FUNAM’ just to be able to get some direct quotes for this article and up popped a statement from 2018
wherein this same FUNAM claimed that Nigeria is their only inheritance and that the whole of Nigeria up to the Atlantic belongs to them, that Plateau is their indigenous territory, even as they claimed responsibility for some gruesome killings.
In recent times, the same group claimed that it attacked Benue Governor Ortom, and only missed killing him because of some ‘slight technical communications error’.
The group went further to say “Our intention is unequivocal: TO KILL HIM.
The mission will one day be fulfilled and very soon too”.
Furthermore,“We warn collaborators working against Fulani people across Nigeria: WE SHALL GET YOU irrespective of your hidden place
… We state clearly, any state or individual that opposes RUGA will be confronted.
Any State or individual that opposes ranching, we shall get you.
Speak against ranching and RUGA even on the internet: Our Noiseless fighters shall find and fix you…
In the next few months, FUNAM will carry out attacks on strategic human and material assets of States and Non State groups or individuals known for their anti-Fulani campaigns… We shall hunt you down in your houses, in your work places, in your car, in your streets.
It’s a matter of time”.
People sign these documents but no one has been apprehended, neither has the statements been declared fake by our intelligence services.
From my own humble perception these statements are childishly written by someone who wants to foment trouble and arouse public anger and disunity in general.
The statements also deflect from focusing on real perpetrators.
I have been on many WhatsApp groups trying to calm people down by bringing attention to the fact that their minds are being manipulated.
But why am I doing DSS job?
Even Ortom had earlier called a press conference at which he read another statement that this group put online to the extent that Benue State belongs to them and that it was their pleasure to kill Tiv people!
A lot of Nigerians have been hailing Ortom for being a governor who loves his people for these public shows.
However, those who attacked him must be found.
We hear that the police have arrested some fishermen in the area.
I have become a bit wary as every crime in Nigeria is now attributed to herders.
Are we not leaving the space open for other criminals to ride on our sentiments?
Are we saying with all the resources at the behest of our intelligence services, no one can fish out those dumping things online, stewing up the minds of Nigerians, causing mayhem all over the place and even getting people primed to the idea of war and national disintegration?
Is this the best that we can do really gentlemen?

Harry-Meghan interview: Queen is sad, says Buckingham Palace
Queen Elizabeth II has expressed sadness over the interview granted by her grandson, Prince Harry, and his wife Meghan.
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex had in the interview narrated the conversations around about
how dark Archie’s
(their newborn child) skin might be and how the child would not be given a royal title and police protection.
However, Buckingham Palace said in a statement on Tuesday that the Palace “is saddened by the challenges faced by her grandson Prince Harry and his wife Meghan, and takes their allegations of racism in the royal family seriously.
“The whole family is saddened to learn the full extent of how challenging the last few years have been for Harry and Meghan.
The issues raised, particularly that of race, are concerning,” the palace said in a statement released on the queen’s behalf.
“While some recollections may vary, they are taken very seriously and will be addressed by the family privately.
Harry, Meghan and Archie will always be much-loved family members.”
More than 12 million viewers viewed the British broadcast of Oprah Winfrey’s interview with Meghan and Prince Harry on Monday night.
The interview also attracted a 54 percent share of the television audience at the time.

Fury vs Joshua will be in Saudi Arabia in August — Hearn
Saudi Arabia will host the world heavyweight boxing title unification fight between Tyson Fury and Anthony Joshua in August, promoter Eddie Hearn said on Tuesday.
Joshua holds the IBF, WBO, WBA and IBO titles while fellow Briton Fury is the WBC belt holder.
“August the seventh, August the 14th.
I think it’s a very bad secret that the fight is happening in Saudi Arabia,” Hearn told Sky Sports television.
“It’s the same people we did the deal with for Andy Ruiz, that event was spectacular.
As partners they were fantastic as well,” he added.
Joshua won back his belts from Mexican-American Andy Ruiz Jr in Diriyah, on the outskirts of the Saudi capital Riyadh, in December 2019.

Why secession is not the silver bullet to Nigeria’s challenges (II)
The proponents of Nigeria’s break up hinge their reasons on three main pegs; the 1914 amalgamation of the northern and southern protectorates which gave birth to Nigeria, the United Nation’s charter on self-determination and allegations of lack of representation and marginalisation in the affairs of the country.
The notion that the 1914 amalgamation which secessionist groups say was the foundational move from which most of the current challenges facing the Nigerian nation emanated need to be vigorously challenged and totally debunked.
In this regard, it will benefit us to know that there was an earlier amalgamation in 1906 where the Lagos colony which had been in existence in 1862 was merged with the southern protectorate.
Like the subsequent 1914 amalgamation which seems to enervate the secessionists, the 1906 amalgamation too was a forced one between unwilling entities which had little or no cultural similarities.
Pray what did the peoples of the coastal states in the Niger Delta region have culturally and historically with the Yorubas of the Southwest?
What links historically and culturally do the Igbos in the eastern hinterland have with Yorubas for that matter?
As far as can be deduced, the reasons for rejecting the 1914 amalgamation also suffice for the one of 1906 in that they were both a forcible measure against peoples of different historical and cultural backgrounds.
Why then do the secessionists harp only on the 1914 amalgamation to press home their demands neglecting conveniently the 1906 amalgamation?
The reasons are simply because for their own narrow political narratives and ends which seek to justify a North versus South secessionist agenda the 1914 amalgamation narrative is more suitable.
It would not make good strategy if they also have to cite the 1906 amalgamation which essentially, by import and effect, was similar to the one of 1914.
How would it look for instance if Oduduwa secessionists say that the 1906 amalgamation was the reason why Igbos who are of different historical and cultural background have come to  dominate the economic and commercial life of Lagos and as such the Oduduwans are seeking out of this marriage with the Igbos forced on them by the British?
Or the Igbos claiming that the 1906 amalgamation was responsible for the skewered nature of economic infrastructure being concentrated in the Southwest which compels them (Igbos) to have to invest in the Lagos economic zone rather than the East at great inconvenience?
Another fallacy being peddled about the 1914 amalgamation which was purportedly signed by representatives of Nigerian entities, was that it was to “expire’’ after a hundred years meaning by 2014.
That Nigeria is still existing after the “expiry’’ date of 2014 is something the secessionists are trying to instigate other Nigerians to agitate against and ensure the end of this “expired contraption’’ as they call Nigeria.
Again this is as near a namby pamby narrative as it can get.
By 1914 the British had established full and total control of the territory we now call Nigeria as all pre-existing entities such as they were had become subsumed under British rule.
British colonial rule over Nigeria had been unquestionably established which made the amalgamation a purely administrative measure by a colonial overlord for which he did not need the permission of his subjects to carry out.
In this regard the amalgamation could not have been time bound as claimed, and it was not.
If ever there was a time for the amalgamation to “expire’’ as claimed, it had to be at the end of the British colonial enterprise which at the time was not in the reckoning of the British.
If there was a genuine document that contained the terms and condition of the 1914 amalgamation including the signatories representing various pre-existing Nigerian entities as well as clause stating the date of “expiry’’, the onus is on those peddling such as basis for the break-up of Nigeria to present it as proof to us of their justification.
In any case, even if such a document existed, with Nigeria’s independence in 1960 it ceased to be valid because all entities in Nigeria at the time partook through their elected representatives to discuss and agree on terms to be part of the new country.
If an agreement such as being bandied about on the amalgamation existed and if the parties that took part in the independence talk agreed for its retention and inclusion in the independence constitution, it would have become a relevant constitutional and legal case for the secessionists to cite in their agitations.
On the issue of the UN provision on self-determination as cited by the secessionists for their action, it is important to bear two important points in mind.
The UN is not a world government with executive powers to superimpose its will on national governments.
A country can invoke the principle of sovereignty to block the implementation of any UN resolution it considers in conflict with its national interests.
Although Nigeria is signatory to the UN charter including the provision on self-determination, it can and has the right to block any attempt by any group within it to break-up the country by latching on to that provision.
Thus even in the unlikely event of any break-away group in Nigeria securing UN support, Nigeria can within its sovereign rights stand against such a move.
But what is more significant is that although the UN charter provides for self-determination, the UN places a great onus on seeking such to prove their credentials and case comprehensively.
The process of seeking and eventually getting UN support for a self-determination bid is a very complicated and convoluted one which will take years to come to fruition and may not result in success ultimately.
Those seeking to invoke the UN principle of self-determination for their secessionist bid must first of all prove that they have the mandate of the people of the area they seek to represent through popular elections or referendum and not through the media or internet.
They must also show proof that the area seeking to secede has been denied or does not have adequate representation at local, state and national levels of the government of the country.
(To be concluded next week)

Lebanon starts its COVID-19 vaccination drive, PM says will wait his turn
Lebanon started its COVID-19 vaccination drive on Sunday by inoculating the head of critical care at its biggest public hospital, followed by 93-year-old celebrated Lebanese actor and comedian Salah Tizani.
Battling a sharp spike in infections in recent weeks which has overwhelmed its healthcare system, Lebanon took delivery of 28,500 doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine on Saturday, the first batch of 2.1 million doses set to arrive in stages throughout the year.
Delays in signing a deal to purchase a vaccine and the rollout of an inoculation programme had caused frustration in Lebanon.
The World Bank, which helped fund the first batch of doses, has said it would monitor the inoculation drive to ensure the shots go to those most in need.
“I will not be receiving the vaccine today, for today is not my turn and the priority is for the medical sector that has done its duty and presented big sacrifices,’’
caretaker Prime Minister Hassan Diab told reporters at the Rafik Hariri hospital, where Lebanon’s first coronavirus case was quarantined about a year ago.
Tizani, who is better known by his stage name Abou Salim, encouraged everyone to get the vaccine.
“For those who are afraid to get vaccinated, I swear by God, it is protection for them,’’ he said.
The country has also booked 2.7 million doses through the global COVAX scheme for poorer countries and officials
say talks are underway for some 1.5 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine.
The total number of doses ordered so far would cover about half of Lebanon’s population of more than six million, which includes at least a million Syrian refugees.
Lebanon has been under a 24-hour curfew for nearly a month, although the government began lifting some restrictions this week.
(Reuters/NAN)

BIC launches 2021 Art Master contest
BIC has announced the launch of its continent-wide art competition that will see to a grand prize of $2,000.
The stationery giant is searching for talented ball pen artists to submit their exceptional artwork for an opportunity to be named the Art Master of Middle East and Africa, a statement by the company indicated on Sunday.
The BIC Art Master competition was first held in South Africa in 2017 and, following its success, it grew to include all of Africa in 2019.
Deputy General Manager, Lucky Stationery Nigeria Ltd and Senior Sales Manager West & Central Africa, Mr Guillaume Grouès, said, “With our diverse Nigerian culture, we are excited to be launching this year’s edition of the BIC Art Master Competition that acts as a platform to recognize and showcase African talents.
The grand prize for the competition is $2,000, a personalized online gallery and an opportunity to be featured as part of the BIC Art Collection.
The second prize winner will walk away with a $1,000 cash prize, and the 2nd runner-up will win a $500 cash prize.
This contest is open for Africa and Middle East residents only.

FG gets N392bn tax from companies in 3 months
The federal government has gotten N392.77 billion as Company Income Tax (CIT) from breweries, telecommunications companies, and others in the first quarter of 2021.
According to data on CIT published yesterday by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the amount was higher than the N295.72bn generated in the fourth quarter of 2020.
Daily Trust also observed that it was higher than the N295.68bn generated in the first quarter of 2020.
The tax revenue growth in the first quarter of 2021 further represented 32.82 percent quarterly increase and 32.84 percent yearly increase.
Breweries, bottling and beverages generated the highest CIT of N23.26bn and closely followed by professional services that includes telecoms with N18.17bn.
State ministries and parastatals generated N17.35bn
while textile and garment industry generated the least of N13.49 million.
Mining was higher at N34.40m while Automobiles and Assemblies generated N73.57m.
The report showed that out of the generated amounted in the first quarter, N152.33bn was from local industries while N184.59bn was generated as foreign CIT payment.
NBS reported that the balance of N55.85bn was generated as CIT from other payments.

Trump impeachment article heads to U.S. Senate
A second impeachment trial of former U.S. president, Donald Trump is set to come a step closer.
The U.S. House of Representatives prepares to forward the article of impeachment to the Senate.
Carrying the charge of ‘incitement to sedition,’ the article is to be read before the second chamber of Congress at 7 p.m. on Monday evening (
0000
GMT Tuesday).
Trump is facing an unprecedented second impeachment trial based on a charge of incitement of insurrection over the deadly storming of the Capitol by pro-Trump rioters on January 6.
According to impeachment rules, the arrival of the indictment article at the Senate formally triggers the start of the impeachment trial, which will be the first faced by a president after leaving office.
However, Senate leaders have agreed to modify the rules by having the impeachment article delivered on Monday evening and then delaying the actual start to Feb. 8.
The Capitol attack 
A violent mob of his supporters attacked the Capitol just after he used fiery rhetoric at a rally to promote baseless claims of election fraud.
The attack, which sought to halt lawmakers’ certification of now-President Joe Biden’s victory in the November election, left at least five people, including a police officer dead.
In the Senate, a two-thirds majority is needed to convict.
It is unclear how many Republicans might join the Democrats in such a vote, which could also bar Trump from holding office again.(dpa/NAN)

Court convicts 39 tricycle, bike riders without permit
A mobile court sitting in Benin has convicted 39 people for operating tricycles and motorcycles without rider’s permit.
The prosecutor, Mrs P O. Ovbiagele, had told the court that the 39 people were apprehended within Benin-Agbor road axis, riding their bikes and tricycles without permit.
According to Ovbiagele, the offence is punishable under section 9(4) and 27 of the Second Schedule of the Edo Traffic Control and Management Agency Law, 2010.
The accused persons pleaded guilty to the offence and asked for leniency.
The Chief Magistrate, Mutairu Oare, thereafter, convicted the 39 persons and ordered them to pay N5,000 fine each, and obtain the rider’s permit within 24 hours.
According to him, if they fail to obtain the permit, parking fees of N1,000 would be charged on their impounded bikes and tricycles on a daily basis.
Oare also said that after six weeks of non-compliance, the tricycles and bike would be forfeited to the state government.

Gunmen kill traditional ruler, 3 others in Benue
Gunmen on Wednesday killed a traditional ruler, Chief Hyacinth Ajon and three other people in separate incidents in two Local Government Area of Benue State.
The deceased traditional monarch was said to have been killed alongside one, Benjamin Anakula in Tse Zoola community of Makurdi LGA while two others whose names were not given were also killed in Guma area of the state.
Eldest man in the community, Aho Zoola, alleged that gunmen suspected to be herders attacked the villagers at about 2:00am, shot sporadically and killed the two people.
Zoola
according to the report of one of Governor Samuel Ortom’s media aide, narrated that the attack on their rural abode came to them as a surprise because they never had any issues with herders.
The media aide, Jimmin Geoffrey, had stated that the governor was returning from a burial in the area when he had a stop over to sympathise with the villagers who are already displaced from their homes and assured them that he would do everything possible to get security agencies to the area.
Similarly, the Chairman of Guma LGA, Caleb Aba, told newsmen in Makurdi by telephone that the two other people were killed on Wednesday in Mbayer-Yandev council ward of Guma.
Aba however fingered suspected herders behind the killings in his domain.

Dr Mahmud Tukur: Tribute to distinguished accomplishment
‘In the end, it is not the years in one’s life that count, but the life in one’s years—’ Abraham Lincoln
The limited space available here is certainly not enough to describe the late Dr Mahmud Muhammad Tukur, a Nigerian politician and former Minister for Commerce and Industry during the administration of General  Muhammadu Buhari.
Tukur, who belonged to a small clique of policy advocates in Northern Nigeria, died on April 9, 2021, at the age of 82 years.
He has since been buried in Yola, Adamawa State.
Dr Tukur was the 1st indigenous Director of the Institute of Administration, Kongo, Zaria.
He took the mantle from Prof. S.S. Richardson in 1967 until 1975 when he became the first Vice-Chancellor of the Bayero University Kano.
Now recall it was the late Sir Ahmadu Bello, the Sardauna of Sokoto, who upon attaining independence of Northern Nigeria, declared before Sir Garwin Westray Bell the last Governor-General in 1957 at the Lugard Hall Kaduna, that the commitment of training the manpower in the North, which according to him “On them, we will rely on the attainment of improving the health, prosperity and happiness of our people without discrimination on grounds of tribe or creed” of which Dr Tukur and a few distinguished others were the foundation recruits.
Some have said the journey of President Muhammadu Buhari into politics is incomplete without Tukur.
Yes, no doubt, the description of Tukur as being among the intellectual powerhouse of the president is true since his contemporaries included Mamman Daura, Liman Ciroma, Adamu Ciroma, and Hamza Rafindadi Zayyad.
Mahmud Tukur was a firm, tenacious and resolute man who led an impactful life, a man of deep conviction and inner strength, who served the North incorruptibly and enhanced the betterment of the country’s democracy.
Under his tutelage as Director, Institute of Administration, Zaria, he supervised and superintended the building of a crop of the intelligentsia in the North and was deeply committed with a strong sense of duty to the building of a Nigeria that is equitable.
We can safely deduce then, that an entire genre of the past and current civil servants, private sector executives and political elites in the North passed through the hands of the late scholar who affected every facet of education and saw to the manpower upliftment of not only his the region but Nigeria at large.
President Muhammadu, in a tribute to Tukur, said “Dr Mahmud Tukur’s service to the nation will be remembered by generations.
He had a passion for a prosperous, economically strong and united Nigeria.
He was a proud nationalist.”
Buhari recalled that as Minister of Trade in his first coming as military Head of State, Dr Tukur introduced a lot of schemes that revived the local industry, boosted exports and gave real meaning and effect to import substitution in regenerating the indigenous manufacturing sector of the economy.
He prayed to Almighty Allah to accept him in Aljannah Firdaus and give the family, friends, the Adamawa Emirate Council and the people of the state the strength to bear this great loss.
Indeed Tukur’s enviable position and competence increased his public profile in Nigeria.
It indeed takes many good deeds to build a good reputation, therefore the contributions of Tukur in the development of the education sector during his stint at Bayero University and his tireless efforts in the peacebuilding process and socio-economic development of Northern Nigeria can never be forgotten.
Late Tukur, born in 1939 in Yola, Adamawa State, obtained his First Degree in International Affairs and Political Science at the University of Wales (where he was the recipient of the Elizabeth Morris Memorial Prize for graduating first in his class).
He also obtained a Master’s Degree in Public International Affairs at the University of Pittsburgh and a PhD. in Public Management at Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Kaduna.
He also studied at Northwestern and Oxford Universities.
The deceased was a Fulbright-Hays Fellow, senior I.U.C. Fellow and associate member of St. Anthony’s College, Oxford (1974).
He goes into history as the first Vice-Chancellor of Bayero University, Kano.
In his career as a public servant, the prominent scholar of worldwide fame served on the Adebo and Udoji National Wage Reviews and the Constitution Drafting Committee of 1976, he was also a member of the sub-committee on Citizenship Rights, Fundamental Rights, Political Parties and Electoral System under the chairmanship of Alhaji Aminu Kano.
He was a member of the National Constitutional Conference (1994\1995) and the Vision 2010 Committee (1997).
In 1984, during the military regime of Major General Muhammadu Buhari, he was appointed Minister of Commerce and Industries by the Federal Government.
A business executive, the late Tukur chaired the activities of Fukarabe Industries Limited, Kaduna, and fulfilled the obligations of many corporate directorships.
He was a Coordinator of Policy Analysis Limited and authored and co-authored many books, of which the most prominent is: Leadership and Governance in Nigeria:
The Relevance of Values, published in 1999.
He is survived by three wives, nine children and many distinguished brothers, including the prominent global industrialist and world-renowned business mogul, Alhaji Bamanga Tukur, former Governor of the defunct Gongola State, one time Minister of Industries and ex-chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and Late Engr Hamman Tukur a former Director-General Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources and Pioneer Chairman, Revenue Mobilization and Fiscal Commission.
We commiserate with Nigerians on the demise of this courageous academic, who, contrary to being also a match-maker, had a  more distinguished career in the service to the nation.
Nigeria would surely miss the statesmanship of the Adamawa born Dr Mahmud Tukur, an enigma during his lifetime, who displayed genuine magnanimity and moral courage, and who always put national interest above ethnic or group interests.
Reputed for his uncompromising adherence to due process, he was indeed a bridge builder, ever ready to deploy his wisdom and knowledge garnered over the years for the good of his country.
Dr Tukur was a man of peace and unquestionable diligence and professionalism whose death is a great loss to Nigeria.
He lived an impactful life and contributed immensely to Nigeria and has etched his name on a platter of gold in the country’s history.
We all have a collective duty to keep alive his service patriotic duty for a peaceful and secured country.
The federal government should immortalise him by naming any of any educative or renaming the Institute of Administration ABU Zaria in his remembrance.
Nigeria has indeed lost a rare gem, patriotic Nigerian par excellence, an academic extraordinaire and great author, who had served this nation meritoriously, a man of strong character and conviction who led one of the most impactful lives anyone would have wished to live, going by his well-defined roles in the growth of humanity and his untiring commitment to nation-building.
His contribution to the history of our nation and continent will never be forgotten
In the end,  as Abraham Lincoln succinctly asserts, it is not the years in one’s life that count, but the life in one’s years.
May Allah SWT uplift his works and grant him Aljannar Firdaus.
Muhammad Gombe, a media practitioner, writes from Abuja

Benue warns of imminent food crisis
The Benue State Government at the weekend raised an alarm over imminent food crisis unless the challenges of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in various camps across the state were urgently addressed.
Executive Secretary of State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Dr. Emmanuel Shior, made the observation during an interactive session with newsmen in Makurdi.
Shior said it became necessary to sound the alarm as “most of the IDPs are farmers who have been chased out of their ancestral lands occasioned by herders attacks for over two years now.
“The herders are the reason why the IDPs are in camps and till date, there are still pockets of attacks around Torkula and Idyer in Guma, Moor in Kwande, as well as some communities in Agatu and Logo,” he said.
The SEMA boss said it was worrisome that the state has over 500,000 IDPs in eight designated camps across the state alongside others scattered in makeshift shelters in relatives homes while the state government continues to spend so much to fend for them.
He explained that, “we have spent billions of naira in taking care of the IDPs since 2018.
We have eight official camps housing over 500,000 IDPs in those camps.”
He however added that Governor Samuel Ortom had put in place the IDPs disengagement plans to ensure the safe return of the IDPs to their homes, noting that with the high number of IDPs in the state, it would be difficult to just close down the camps, especially as there were still pockets of attacks and their deserted homes not safe for return.
Shior appealed to the federal government, international donor partners as well as well-meaning individuals and corporate organizations to come to the aid of the state in that regard, stressing the need for the federal government to release the N10billion that was promised to Benue among other states for the resettlement of the IDPs.

12 killed in fresh Benue attack
Gunmen have reportedly killed 12 people in several communities of Ado Local Government Area in Benue State.
Witnesses said the attack on the communities was carried out simultaneously between Saturday night and early hours of Sunday in Tologa, Ndi-Obasi, Odoken all in Ekile Council Ward of Ijigban District, Ado Local Government Area.
Chairman of Ado Council, James Oche, told journalists in Makurdi on telephone that 12 people were killed during a coordinated attack on five villages in his area.
Oche alleged that the attack was a reprisal by suspected herders after some persons believed to be IPOB members crossed over from Ebonyi State to his Ado Local Government in Benue State and killed one elderly Fulani man identified as Muhammad Isah.
“I suspect that the herders came on reprisal because of one elderly Fulani man known as Isah Muhammad who lived in one of the affected communities that shared boundary with Ohakwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State and was recently killed by IPOB members, who crossed over to the comunity in Ado,” he said.
Contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) for Benue Command, DSP Catherine Anene, was yet to reply to calls and text messages put through her telephone at the time of sending this report.

How local production of COVID-19 vaccine will save Nigeria
The federal government has reiterated the need to have a home-grown COVID-19 vaccine for its over 200 million population, saying local production of the vaccine would save the country the cost of importation as well as make it easily accessible and affordable.
The Minister of state for Health, Dr Senator Olorunnimbe Mamora said that in order to achieve home-grown COVID-19 vaccines in Nigeria, there is a need to support research institutes.
He said this on Monday at the Nigeria institute of medical research (NIMR), Lagos during the commissioning of the next generation sequencing as well as a tour of the projects within the institute.
According to the Minister, “Although there is a vaccine in the country, we will not stop research institutes from working on the one they are researching on.
Having our own home-grown vaccine is the ultimate in which case, we don’t have to look to any other country for a vaccine.
It is in our own interest that we ensure we get to that point where we can lay claim to our own vaccine.”
Nigeria and 53 other African countries are yet to produce a vaccine for over 1.34 billion people.
The continent is reliant on the vaccine produced from outside the continent.
The Director-General/CEO of NIMR, Babatunde Salako, revealed that the institute has been having a collaboration with the Usmanu Danfodiyo University in Sokoto and the National Veterinary Institute in Jos for robust research on vaccine development in Nigeria.
Prof Salako hinted, “While NIMR is currently using Gibson assembly cloning in developing multi-valent peptide subunit vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 virus, Usmanu Danfodiyo is employing bioinformatics and nano-technology to make DNA vaccines, and National Veterinary, on the other hand, is using reverse genetics in engineering New Castle Virus to express SARS-CoV-2 spike proteins.
This is a serious effort to be supported by the government.”
The newly commissioned sequencing machine, he explained, was acquired to serve in the molecular surveillance as well as monitor the variants of SARS-CoV-2 in Nigeria.
The machine, he insisted, would prepare the country in the fight against other infectious agents such as Lassa fever virus, Yellow fever, Ebola and other infectious agents characterized by the genetic code.

Gunmen abduct Nasarawa lawmaker, 3 others in Kaduna
Unidentified gunmen have abducted a member of the Nasarawa State House of Assembly representing Nasarawa Central State Constituency, Mr Ismail Danbaba, his driver and two others to an unknown destination.
Daily Trust gathered that Danbaba, who was travelling to Jos, Plateau State capital for a workshop alongside his driver and two others people in his vehicle, was abducted on Saturday evening.
The Chairman, Nasarawa State House of Assembly’s Committee on Information, Mr Mohammed Omadefu, confirmed the incident in Lafia on Sunday.
He said the lawmaker was abducted along Akwanga/Jos road close to the forest in Sanga Local Government Area of Kaduna State.
Our correspondent learnt the legislator was ambushed and whisked away to an unknown destination with his driver and two others in the vehicle.
Omadefu, who represents Keana State Constituency on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), informed our correspondent that the lawmaker’s abductors had already contacted the House but were yet to make demands.
He said: “The lawmaker of the Nasarawa State House of Assembly, Mr Ismail Danbaba, who is representing Nasarawa Central, was kidnapped yesterday in the evening while he was on his way for an official function along Akwanga/Jos road in Sanga Local Government Area of Kaduna State.”
When our correspondent contacted the Police Public Relation Officer, Nasarawa State Police Command, ASP Ramhman Nansel, he said the incident did not occur in Nasarawa State, so he would not comment on that.
He said: “Please, contact the Police Public Relation Officer in Kaduna state.
“Nasarawa State command is not aware of any such incident.”

4 killed in police faceoff with IPOB sit-at-home enforcers in Ebonyi
Four people are feared killed in shooting between members of Indigenous Peoples of Biafra and police in Ebonyi.
Early indications are that a police officer and three IPOB members are among those killed, though Daily Trust is unable to independently verify the identities and the numbers.
The shooting occurred in Nnodo in Ebonyi local government area of Ebonyi state where police encountered IPOB members enforcing the group’s sit-at-home order.
A reliable source who doesn’t want his name on print told Daily Trust that motorbikes and cars were set ablaze during the attack.
“And in order to stop them, the police was mobilized to the area leading to shooting during which deaths were recorded,” he explained.
The police are yet to put out any official statement on the incident.

FULL LIST: The 30 guests that will attend Prince Philip’s funeral
Only 30 guests will be present when Prince Philip, the late husband of Queen Elizabeth, will be laid to rest.
Aged 99, Prince Philip died after a brief illness on Friday.
Due to the coronavirus pandemic, members of the public were advised not to partake in the funeral.
The Queen reportedly faced a very difficult decision selecting the small group from the original 800-strong congregation of St George’s Chapel in Windsor, West of London, where Prince Philips will be laid to rest.
Here is the guest list in full:

Issues FG must fix to regain cotton glory
In the last two years, cotton production has been gathering momentum, but the challenges of farmers have remained unsolved.
Cotton farmers in Nigeria are mostly smallholders, with production largely through the rain-fed system, using traditional farm tools and animal traction (animal drawn implements).
However, few now have access to tractors.
In the 1980s, cotton was grown by about 900,000 smallholder farmers, holding an average of 0.5 to 1.5 hectares in an estimated total area of about 700,000 hectares across the country.
However, with the collapse of the textile and garment industries, as well as poor market, most of the farmers abandoned production for other crops with better market potentials.
Current production level
The annual demand of cotton in Nigeria is estimated at 88,000 metric tonnes of lint, which is about 255,000 metric tonnes of seed cotton.
Until 2019, the total domestic production was below 60,000 with many farmers struggling even to achieve the average yield of between 400kg and 750kg of seed cotton per hectare despite the fact that some of the seeds have yield prospects of about 2.5 to 3.0 metric tonnes per hectare.
Statistics from the National Cotton Association of Nigeria (NACOTAN) showed that the number of farmers under the association has grown from 90,000 in 2018 to about 134,000 farmers for the 2020 wet season.
In 2019, the farmers achieved 120,000 to 130,000 tonnes, which amounts to about 80,000 metric tonnes increase.
For this 2020 wet season, production was expected to reach 200,000 metric tonnes, according to NACOTAN.
The current market
A farmer, Bala Sarkin Ruwa in Shelleng, Adamawa State, told Daily Trust on Sunday that he sold the 2 tons of his cotton early at N180,000.
But his counterpart, Mr Joshua Dadi said he sold at N200,000 in January 2021, describing the price as fair.
Mr Anibe Achimugu, national president of the NACOTAN and managing director of the Arewa Cotton, described the current prices as good for the farmers, compared to previous years.
“In 2019, the price per tonne was N205,000 for farmers.
That means a farmer was doing over a N100,000 profits directly into the pocket if he was able to produce 2 tonnes of seed cotton.
“The intervention is such that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) wants to jump-start the sector.
And of course, you want to leave it, to a large extend, at market-driven prices and demand.
Now, the minimum price, at least this year, is N185,000 per metric tonne, which is still better than if it was to be left on its own and not encouraging to farmers, and so on, where prices were N140 to N150,000 per metric tonne.
I think the minimum guaranteed price since the intervention has been good,” he said.
Issue of quality seed
Professor Ishiyaku Mohammed, the executive director of the Institute of Agricultural Research, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, said the institute had released13 different varieties of cotton seeds with very important economic attributes that increase the income of farmers and provide different products for utilisation, either as fiber or for making textile products, or even for providing oil.
The farmers said that last year, there was an improved access to better quality seeds, with a potential yield of 2.5 tonne per hectare if the best agronomic practices were followed.
With that, Achimugu said “a farmer was jumping in yield figure of between 400 to 500 kilogrammes per hectare to 1.2, 1.5, and in fact, some were getting the 2.5 tonne per hectare.
You know it is how well you manage your farm, the dedication and skill you have, but I will tell you specifically that perhaps the lowest that was recorded was around 700 to 750kg per hectare.
But farmers were hitting 1.5 to 2.5 tonnes per hectare, which was fantastic.”
In  2018, the federal government, through  the National Varietal Release and Naming Committee, approved the commercialisation of two transgenic cotton varieties, MRC 7377 BG 11 and MRC 7361 BG II developed by Mahyco Nigeria Private Ltd, in collaboration with the Institute for Agricultural Research (IAR) in the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria.
Resuscitating cotton industry, a lifeline
Cotton is the key component of the textile and garment industries because it provides fibre for the manufacturing of textile products.
However, the faith of the nation’s textile industries had gone down to a pulp for decades since the glorious years.
In the 1970s to the 1990s, the Nigerian textile industry accounted for about 25 per cent of the Manufacturing Value Added (MVA).
It used to be the largest employer of labour (more than 600,000 people during the 1970’s to 1980’s) in the manufacturing sector after public sector in the early 1990s.
However, experts hinged the collapse of the textile industries that made Kaduna a household name in the country on the high operating cost, resulting from poor energy supply, infrastructure decay and proliferation of the market with cheap and smuggled textiles.
This also forced some to relocate to other countries within the sub-region.
Out of the 54 ginneries available in Nigeria, only 22 are functioning at very low capacity utilisation.
Ginning capacity of the existing ginneries is about 650,000 tonnes of seed cotton but national production falls to” less than 60,000 tonnes per annum representing about 10 per cent capacity utilisation” according to the data from the Raw Material Research and Development Council (RMRDC).
“This trend has a spirally limiting effect on the cotton value chain development locally, culminating in the folding up of several textile industries (83) between 1995 till date, while the few that are functioning (23) are performing at low capacity utilisation,” Professor Hassaini Ibrahim Doko, the director-general, RMRDC said.
Experts said to bring cotton value chain back to life and its glorious days, the federal government must champion the revival of industries through various policies and financial interventions.
FG must tackle smuggling, cheap import
The Director-General of the Nigerian Textile Manufacturers Association, Alhaji Hamma Kwajaffa, said smuggling and cheap Chinese imports had been the bane of the country’s cotton industry.
Despite the procurement act for local content to be sourced first, nothing has changed much as most of the materials used for uniforms majorly come from China, while others come from India, Bangladesh and Pakistan.
“The original thing should have been that all our uniforms are sourced locally from the textile companies.
If you look at our schools, Army, Navy, Air Force, Immigration, Customs etc, if their uniforms were all sourced locally, of course many of the textile industries would not have closed.
“Our problem is actually smuggling.
You know our dealers can go to China; and in China, anything you ask for they can do it for you.
They go to China with our textile design and the Chinese would do it for them the way they want, and this ends up in Nigerian markets,” Alhaji  Kwajaffa lamented.
Cotton farmers, through the NACOTAN, want the federal government to take up cotton as a national asset and introduce a Nigerian standard, which can help the country to have a good grading system, as well as the establishment of high volume instrument cotton testing laboratories, he also said, adding that “these will take care of many issues.”
Banditry affects production
In the last two years, many cotton farmers could not access their farms because of the activities of bandits along major producing areas.
Recently, the only surviving textile company in Kaduna State shut down operations and sacked over 100 staff due to the absence of raw materials because the farmers were complaining that bandits won’t allow them go to their farms.
Stakeholders said government must reinvigorate its security architecture to enable farmers return to their farms as that is the only way to reduce poverty in rural communities.
Abdullahi Salisu Dayi, a farmer in Malumfashi Local Government, said that unless something spectacular happened in favour of cotton production, he doubted if farmers would engage in it as they did last year.
Climate change affecting production
Last year, many cotton farmers in Katsina, Gombe and Adamawa states suffered erratic rainfall, which has affected yields.
Some farmers who spoke with Daily Trust on Sunday in Adamawa, Katsina and Gombe said their yields were severely affected by little or heavy rainfall.
Joshua Dadi in Kem, Adamawa State, said his yield was affected because of a sudden cessation of rainfall.
Although he got 4 tonnes in his two-hectare farm, the yield is below the 2019 yield.
Hamisu Sani in Katsina said cotton farmers suffered most as demand for the produce is not like that of rice, maize or soybeans, yet its price is good at N200,000 per tonne.
“Heavy rainfalls permeated our cotton farms and stagnated the growth of the crop, as well as caused rot of the cotton balls at their early stage,” he added.
Another large scale cotton farmer, Alhaji Kamilu Kankara, said he also suffered low yield of the produce due to heavy rainfall.
“Over the years, demand for food items has prompted my gradual withdrawal from massive cotton production.
This year seems the worst for me as I only harvested nine bags from two hectares that were giving me three tonnes of cotton,’’ he said.
With a growing population of over 200 million and army of unemployed youth roaming the streets, experts said government must give priority to sectors like agriculture huge attention, both in budget, policies and financial interventions.

Cocoa production is not progressing in Edo – Farmers
Cocoa farmers in Edo State have lamented that lack of support from the state and federal governments is hindering cocoa production in the state.
The state chairman of the association, Thomas Ekpenriebe, stated this in Benin while speaking with journalists on the prospect of cocoa farming in the state.
He said the farmers had not gotten any support from either the state government or the Federal Government, in term of inputs and funding, saying the development is really affecting cocoa production in the state.
“As it is now in Edo State, we go to Ibadan and Ondo states to get the new hybrid of cocoa because the cocoa seed garden in the state is not functioning, and nobody is managing it.
Also, there is no extension service for cocoa farmers in the state.
In the 1960s, cocoa was the cash crop used to develop the country.
Today, there’s nothing coming from the state or Federal Government.
We are just working on our own and it is affecting cocoa production in the state and the country in general,’’ he said.
The farmers solicited the support of the Edo State Government to invest in cocoa farming by reawakening extension service, re-established cocoa seed garden to avoid travelling to other states for seedlings and also generate more revenue for the state.
The chairman also lamented the activities of middlemen in cocoa business in the state, which he said was affecting profits accrued to cocoa.
While calling for the re-establishment of a cocoa board across the country, he said, “The board would serve as a regulatory body that would help cocoa farmers to identify licensed buyers and control the price of the commodities.’’
He explained that currently, Edo State has the best quality cocoa due to the concerted efforts by relevant stakeholders.
Ekpenriebe also identified unfavourable climate, outbreak of fire, COVID-19, absence of a regulatory body as major hindrances to the sector.

Entrepreneurship development: Purpose and mindset
After the arrival of the colonial masters to various parts of what later became Nigeria, and the beginning of the introduction of Western-style public administration, the need for trained “native” public servants began.
With increasing need for various services, the vacancies for trained manpower continued to balloon for several decades up to the 1980s.
But by the late 1980s, we had begun to not only saturate the public services, but were probably over-employed.
If any realistic and prudent thing is to happen to our public services over the next one decade, it should be a deliberate and systemic “rightsizing”, and that is a polite way of saying downsizing except probably for the military, the police and other such services.
Yes, obviously, people will die or retire and there will be need to employ for replacements and for some marginal growth as well.
But those combined vacancies are very unlikely to meet up with the rate graduates from high schools and universities are churned out from all around the country.
We have to, therefore, not only accept the reality that the public sector is never meant to be there to just employ graduates but to also gladly accept the truism that the public sector should, instead, focus on developing the enabling environment that will see to the creation and growth of businesses of all sizes in all sectors and crannies of the country.
If you ask me, successive federal governments in the past have done reasonably well in encouraging graduates to go into self-employment and business through programs with the Bank of Agriculture, Bank of Industry, SMEDAN, NDE, NIRSAL, etc.
But the call has not been sufficiently loud and unequivocal: The government must cease creating any impressions that it can directly employ the multitudes of our youths, by honestly and clearly communicating that there are limited employment opportunities in the public sector that can come up from time to time.
Instead, the government should continue to focus on strengthening the various interventionist and enabling programmes that will facilitate the creation of employment by the youth themselves.
Obviously, all the aforementioned programmes can only succeed and be sustainable if a sense and responsibility of accountability are both inculcated and enforced in our youth.
With a population of over two hundred million people and growing, there are more than sufficient local markets for many products and services.
From abundant fertile land for agriculture all across the country, to solid minerals in most states of the federation; information technology, manufacturing and services, we really are literally a bottomless pit of opportunities for serious entrepreneurs.
Over the coming weeks, this column would endeavour to bring out topical issues on entrepreneurship that will help our youths in understanding opportunities and how to seize them and create jobs for themselves and others.
The starting points for the success of any and every worthy endeavour in life are two: purpose and mind-set.
One of the reasons many people fail to achieve meaningful and sustainable success in business and life is because they fail to identify their life’s purpose from the get-go.
Even when they can boast of what might seem to be reasonable outwardly achievements, they may still lack the full internal satisfaction necessary to keep them motivated and going for the marathon this life is.
Lack of purpose costs us resources such as our time, finances, efforts, relationships, etc.
In the long run, we realise that it has deprived us of true meaning in the various spheres of our lives and the contentment that comes with it.
Without a purpose or with a weak one, an individual can easily be swayed away from their otherwise noble journey.
Entrepreneurship is particularly challenging.
Without a clear purpose that has deep meaning that is internalised, you risk missing your way or giving up when you hit headwinds, and there will be a lot of it in the journey!
The next most important thing after ‘purpose’ is your mindset.
Consciously or subconsciously, everything starts with our mind-sets.
Successful entrepreneurs have an amazing perception of what they want to achieve years and even decades before it becomes reality.
It is the clarity of the vision in their minds that keeps them highly motivated internally and quite relentless on the outside.
And so nothing seems to be able to stop them.
In the conceptual development and production of the “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs”, the American Walt Disney faced an unbelievable resistance from financiers, contributors and other associates including his brother, Roy Disney.
Hollywood wags referred to the project as ‘Disney’s Folly’.
But Disney was very clear in his mind as to what he wanted to achieve.
He refused to lose focus on his desired outcome.
In the end, the project cost a whopping 1.5 million in 1938 US dollars.
But in the first weekend of its release, Snow White brought in $8 million, representing about $134 million in current dollars!
This level of confidence is never accidental.
It is a consequence of a mindset that is committed to achieving identified objectives.
Ask any successful entrepreneur, they will identify with this story of vision, mind-set and resolve.
With a clear purpose and a committed mindset, the next important thing the budding entrepreneur should be aware of is what to expect in entrepreneurship.
“Entrepreneurship: What to Expect on the Journey” will be in this column next week.
Musbahu El Yakub is an author, business consultant and entrepreneur.
www.melyakub.com

Niger Senator wants electronic voting mandatory for 2023 polls
The Senator representing Niger East Senatorial District, Mohammed Sani Musa, has advocated mandatory use of electronic voting during the 2023 general elections.
Speaking with newsmen on Monday in Abuja, Senator Musa said electronic voting would increase participation in elections as it would allow voters to vote from anywhere.
The lawmaker therefore urged the Senate Committee on Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) working on the amendments to the Electoral Act 2010, to include the mandatory use of electronic voting during elections, in their final report to the senate at plenary.
Senate President Ahmad Lawan had said that the National Assembly would pass the amendment to the Bill before the Summer Recess which is in June.
“Electronic voting will increase the level of participation because it will allow them to vote from anywhere.
“It will also eliminate violence because the majority of people who have access to the internet will prefer to vote in their homes or offices instead of going physically to the polling stations where armed thugs could cause havoc,” he said.

Grazing crisis: ‘Why states should adopt Zamfara template’
Kwagga Dlama Zira Eliphelet is an architect, designer and project manager of the Zamfara Rural Grazing Area (RUGA) project.
In this interview with Daily Trust on Sunday, he said the Zamfara model could be used in solving the crisis between herders and farmers across the country.
He is of the opinion that the template can be best implemented based on the peculiarity of each state, with the overall interest of creating peace, jobs and economic opportunities.
There is crisis in the livestock sector in Nigeria, especially in the area of animal feeds.
Many stakeholders are suggesting that one of the ways forward is to create ranches for herders in order to tame grazing crisis with farmers.
As an expert in this area, to what extent do you think this can help?
The incessant farmers-herders crisis has eaten into the fabric of this country and contributed to the division we are experiencing.
As a matter of fact, ranching is where the solution to this problem lies because for every well-meaning Nigerian, RUGA, which stands for rural grazing area, has been with us since 1946, but it has been dormant.
In the 21st century, the best way to float production in the livestock system is to have farms or ranches for full commercial production.
Open grazing and travelling kilometres is outdated in every strata of humanity today.
So, this is an opportunity for us to harness our potential in agriculture, which we have forgotten.
The RUGA template we should adopt is unique and peculiar.
There are states that cannot have RUGA or ranches, but they have the potential to benefit in a very big capacity, in terms of livestock production.
Arch.
Kwagga Dlama Zira Eliphelet
The farmer needs to produce what the herder would use as raw material, just as the cow dung is manure for the farmer.
The RUGA should not be forced on all the states, but each state can take advantage of it, based on its own peculiarity.
If the far northern states build ranches, I expect the southern or middle belt states that can’t have RUGA to take advantage of it by putting up large scale fodder of pasture production farming, which will sweep most of our teeming youth out of the streets.
This is an opportunity for governors and commissioners of agriculture to look at how we can harness these potentials.
RUGA should not be viewed as a programme that would cause division.
When the federal government mooted the idea of the national livestock programme, some states, especially in the South, kicked against it, saying it was a way of taking their lands for herders.
As an expert, can you throw more light on how this can be resolved?
The salesmen of the president could not sell the idea properly because, as a matter of fact, the issue of RUGA settlement is not about land grabbing.
You can’t go to Adamawa to grab someone’s land, even if they are mixed with Fulani.
It does not work like that.
You have to look at the peculiarity of each state to decide if a settlement can be established there or not.
So the president and his cabinet should look inward and at the peculiarity of each state.
That is why today, despite being the main programme of the president, the issue has not been nipped in the bud.
This is because they were doing it as a holistic approach in the country.
There are lots of government farms that have been abandoned; this is an opportunity to use them.
Let us come together to renegotiate this project and you will see that people will adopt this roadmap.
Let us have a policy that is workable for us all, with sincerity of purpose.
There should be a proper dialogue between states that are arable for this project, and this will harmonise the relationships we all share.
There are fears that the traditional Fulani may find it difficult to be confined in ranches, how will that be attended to?It is not confinement.
Just as the indigenous people in other parts of the country are repulsive to this because they have not been given a sense of belonging to the project, it is the same with some indigenous Fulani that cannot move because they have intermarried.
There are Fulani that are resident.
For instance, in Adamawa, there are those who stay in a place and they can be differentiated from those who engage in seasonal movements.
So they can also adopt the system of being in a place if the proper orientation is given.
What I am trying to say is that we should look for ways to stop the upward and downward movement.
Nobody will dispute the fact that fattening is when you keep cattle in a place.
This concept is not to imprison the herder but to provide new opportunities.
Zamfara is noted as one of the states piloting RUGA, and you are a key stakeholder in the project; what is the situation now?
The project is a bargaining chip for peace so that the economy would thrive.
When we started work, we were told that before Governor Matawalle came into office, the rate of banditry made the state inaccessible, but he was able to broker peace.
This should not only be applicable to herders.
How do we harness and build up our own farming communities?
What other essential amenities and infrastructure do we need to give our farming communities?
Is it very good rural roads that would bring all those grasses out?
Is it good canals that would take water further to where the streams can’t go, or are boreholes at intervals to give good water, primary health care?
There are basic things that need to be provided.
But it is a right of the citizens and should not be a privilege.
Specifically, what do you have in the Zamfara RUGA project?
The RUGA model encompasses 23 items.
We have the road network, which is about 13.673 kilometres.
The ranch is in the Ranji Sakida Grazing Reserve in Maradun Local Government Area; and it is 2,218 hectares.
The pilot phase started with about 100 hectares, but due to natural formations, it took about 300 hectares.
That is for housing and other structures, but we expect it to take almost the entire place because of pasture production.
There are other reserves meant for similar projects, like Zumi Gidan Jaja with about 36,200 hectares and the Dantsado Kuyanbana forest of about 10,000 hectares.
On the pilot phase, the state government acquired a pivot sprinkler system, which has about 850 meters in diameter and radius of about 475.
Apart from the roads, we have water reticulation, which serves about 27 kilometres.
There is a water storage facility, four overhead and four surface tanks, each of which accommodates 250,000 litres, cumulatively giving you 2million litres.
Then we have solar-powered industrial boreholes, with 8 attached to each one.
We have 10 hand-operated boreholes, which are already sunk.
As at December, the reticulation had gone to about 18 kilometres, out of 27.
We also have health facilities, including a primary health care with a 30-bed capacity and theatres, outdoor patients department, a nursery for delivery, which is attached to the maternity.
We are not expecting any case that is more than the capacity of the health care.
There is the veterinary clinic, which has the capacity to accommodate about 1,000 herds within its own confines.
And it has its own theatre and isolation rooms, including 12 paddocks.
There are markets with open and closed stalls and abattoirs.
But in the context of a Fulani man, he does not kill his animal in his environment, so he takes it to a far place to slaughter, so the abattoir is located outside the ranch.
The abattoir is going to be in Maradun town.
We have 210 plots for herders, each measuring 2,475 square meters, and are divided into four.
Six hundred square meters is given for the living area so that the herder can build his hut the way he wants it.
The other three are divided, fenced and demarcated, with each paddock having a gate.
We provided a squat system for them and a soak-away to each house.
Out of the 210 allotted plots, there are five bedrooms for the Fulani or Hausa leaders.
Three and two bedrooms are for ward heads.
There are religious facilities: an eid ground, a central mosque and outdoor spaces that can accommodate up to 1,000 persons.
There is also an Islamiyya attached to the mosque, as well as a school, so that they can have an opportunity of Islamic and western education.
There are other spaces left for future development.
What are the economic benefits of the settlement in the future?
We have phases one and two.
Phase one is to provide the basic amenities in bringing the herders back into a cluster.
The economic benefits are that it will attract investors over the world.
It will bring the production of meat, which in turn provides revenue.
It will open job opportunities for veterinary doctors, agricultural extension workers, companies that can come in to engage in milk, cheese and manure production, bio gas, bone processing, hide and skin processing, animal feed from the blood, in combination with other ingredients, then pasture production from farmers.

Planned $250m funding for national carrier unsettles operators
A projection by the federal government to raise $250 million for the proposed national carrier is raising questions among operators in the aviation industry, Daily Trust reports.
According to a document released last week by the aviation ministry, the federal government expects private investors to raise $250m for the proposed carrier as it insisted the project would be delivered before 2023.
In the document which gives an update on the national carrier project and other sub-projects in the roadmap, the Ministry of Aviation explained that the project development phase has been completed.
The government explained that the next phase would be the placement of Request for Qualification (RFQ) in local and international media.
“$250m approximately is to be raised to start up the airline by private investors,” the document stated.
But stakeholders  doubt the feasibility of the project, saying investors might be unwilling to put their money in such a venture.
Rather, some of them called on the government to harvest the facilities of the airlines under its management to set up the national carrier.
The Managing Director, Flight and Logistics Solutions, Amos Akpan said it would be an uphill task for private investors to invest $250m in establishing a national airline.
He attributed the difficulty to several factors such as return on investment (ROI), business environment, among others.
He said, “Positioning to attract investment is more critical now.
If the gestation of investment runs into the next government coming in 2023, will it affect the agreements established with this government?
“Nigerians still experience discriminatory aircraft leasing agreements and insurance programmes.
We are still trying to effect the implementation of no duty on aircraft spare parts.
“The forex regime is yet to accommodate airline operators.
Interlining and cooperation is still at the concept stage.
Let’s fix the platform or foundation first before we can build or launch on it.”
In his remarks, aviation analyst and Head of Research Zenith Travel, Olumide Ohunayo, stated that there is no amount too small for a national carrier if there is high credibility and contact with lessors, aircraft manufacturers and other airlines.
Group Captain John Ojikutu (rtd), an aviation analyst, wondered what $250m would do for the project and the would-be investors.
“Private investors will include foreign and local; how much is $250m in a national carrier or how many aircraft would that buy?
How much would government investment of 10% be in the national carrier?
If we want a national carrier let it be now
or we better go for a flag carrier and the government take a rest from the journey it started in 1993 when the national carrier became a government airline.”
But another analyst, Mr. Chris Aligbe, said raising $250m for the project would not be difficult, noting that there are many investors who are willing to put in their money on the project.
According to him, the $250m would be more than enough to start off the project depending on the strategy being adopted.

Almost 500 bags of onions looted from attacked Imo truck — Market leader
Halilu Mohammed is the Secretary of Onions Dealers Association in Imo State.
In this interview, he narrated how suspected members of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) attacked and confiscated two trucks transporting onions to the eastern part of the country.
Excerpts:
Can you tell us how the incident happened?
Well, there were two trucks conveying onions from Kano State.
These people stopped the vehicles and seized the drivers and the vehicles
and they later drove the vehicles to one side where they ransacked and sold all the onions before we could get the security agencies to get to the area.
Each bag of the onion costs at least N15,000 at market price but they sold each of the bags at N9,000.
Who are those people that carried out the attacked?
Of course they were Biafran militants (IPOB), who were marching with their flags.
They carried out the attack, looted the goods and sold each and every of the onions conveyed in the vehicle.
Where did they carry out the attack?
The attack was carried out at the market where these vehicles were stopped and ransacked.
They gave out a price and sold each bag of the onions at the price of N9,000 and went away with the money.
Before security agencies arrived, they have already sold out all the onions in one vehicle.
It was after security agencies have arrived then we moved the other vehicle to a safer place so that they do not attack again and possibly go with the vehicle.
Who owns the goods?
The onions belonged to one Alhaji Bello who also owned the trucks conveying the onions loaded from Kano to Imo state.
What is the estimated value of all the onions in each vehicle?
We have estimated each of the vehicles was conveying at least 470 bags of onions.
And each of the bag of onion is sold at a market price of N15,000.
What is the implication of this incident and what effect could it have on business in that area?
The incident has already affected both the people in that area as well as those traders who engage in such businesses.
Now, people are already in fear, and those drivers have lost the peace of mind to convey onions to Imo state.
Everyone is scared of the probable danger.
We have so many vehicles on ground that refused to convey onions to Imo state.
What actions are you taking?
Well, we are keeping in touch with our leaders, our traditional rulers and government to look into the situation for appropriate action.
How are northerners in the eastern part coping with the unrest in these areas?
Now everything seems to be normal.
The tension is subsiding unlike when the incident happened.

Gunmen kill pregnant woman, abduct lawmaker in Nasarawa
Gunmen have reportedly killed a pregnant woman in an attack on Abebe village in Keana Local Government Area of Nasarawa State.
It was gathered that the incident happened in the early hours of Saturday when the assailants stormed the village with sophisticated weapons and shot sporadically, causing pandemonium as residents scampered for safety.
The President, Tiv Development Association, Comrade Peter Ahemba, who confirmed the incident, alleged that the attacks and killing of Tiv people of Nasarawa State in the last two months was targeted at chasing them out of the state.
In another incident, gunmen have reportedly abducted a member of the Nasarawa State House of Assembly, Mr. Ismail Danbaba, his driver and two other persons.
It was gathered that Danbaba, who represents Nasarawa Central constituency in the State Assembly, and three others, were abducted on Saturday evening while travelling to Jos, Plateau State capital for a workshop.
A member of the state’s parliament, Mr. Mohammed Omadefu, who confirmed the incident in Lafia, said the incident happened along Akwanga/Jos road, close to a forest in Sanga Local Government Area of Kaduna State.
Omadefu told our correspondent that the abductors had contacted the state’s House of Assembly but were yet to make any demand.
When contacted, the Police Public Relation Officer, Nasarawa State Command, ASP Rahman Nansel, said since the incident didn’t happen in Nasarawa State, he would not comment on that.
“Please contact the Police Public Relation Officer in Kaduna State.
Nasarawa State Command is not aware of any such incident,” he said.

Cement scarcity: Dangote to revive Gboko plant
The management of Dangote Cement is set to improve cement availability in the market as it plans to revive its Gboko plant which shut down over four years ago.
The Group Sales and Marketing Director (GSMD) of Dangote Cement, Rabi’u Umar, stated this Thursday in Kano while interacting with building industry professionals.
“The company has been up and doing to ensure an effective restoration of cement supply across the states.
Dangote Cement will soon inject 2000 trucks into the cement supply chain as well as the revival of the Gboko plant and extension of a production plant line.”
The Registrar, Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN), Prof. Joseph Odigwe, told the participants that Nigeria’s cement industry has been producing cement that is of international standard.
A participant, Engr.
Aliyu Aliyu, said Dangote cement has gained the confidence of cement users in the country, adding that there is a need for brand specification to allow its effective use.

3 names disappear from U.S. Intel Report on Khashoggi after initial release – Reports
The U.S. intelligence community has replaced its long-awaited report on the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, with another version that no longer includes the names of three men initially considered as complicit, CNN reported on Monday.
On Friday, the U.S. intelligence community declassified a report saying that the Saudi crown prince had approved the operation that killed Khashoggi in 2018.
Later that day, the U.S. Treasury announced sanctions against former deputy head of Saudi intelligence, Ahmed al-Asiri, and the crown prince’s personal protective detail.
Saudi Arabia, in turn, has strongly refuted the information about the alleged role of the kingdom’s leadership in the incident, adding that the kingdom had already convicted and sentenced those responsible for the killing.
According to the broadcaster, the three men, whose names were removed from the report, “participated in, ordered, or were otherwise complicit in or responsible for the death of Jamal Khashoggi.’’
The first name is Abdulla Mohammed Alhoeriny, who is the brother of General Abdulaziz bin Mohammed al-Howraini and heads the Presidency of State Security, the broadcaster reported, citing a person familiar with the inner workings of Saudi intelligence.
Abdulla is named in Saudi reports as the assistant chief of state security for counterterrorism.
The two other names that subsequently disappeared are Yasir Khalid Alsalem and Ibrahim al-Salim, CNN said, adding it was not clear who they were.
The Office of the Director of National Intelligence declined to clarify to the broadcaster why the names were initially included in the report, while a senior U.S. administration official said on Friday before the change was noticed that there was no new information in the report.
“We put a revised document on the website because the original one erroneously contained three names which should not have been included,’’ an ODNI spokesperson told CNN.
Khashoggi went missing in 2018 after entering the Saudi consulate in Istanbul.
Riyadh initially denied any knowledge of Khashoggi’s whereabouts but eventually admitted that he had been killed inside the diplomatic mission.
The Saudi government sentenced several people over their role in Khashoggi’s murder and has repeatedly denied allegations that members of the royal family were involved in the incident.
The position of Saudi Arabia has already been supported by a number of Arab states, including the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Kuwait, as well as by the Arab League.(Sputnik/NAN)

Reasons wheat price will remain high
For decades, the wheat story in Nigeria has not been positive despite various federal government pronouncements and task forces set up to scale up wheat production.
The challenge forced many wheat farmers to direct their energy more towards rice which enjoys favourable policies and funding.
The local demand for wheat has grown to over 6 million tonnes (MTs) in 2021 due to a growing population estimated at over 200 million.
For instance, the demand by flour millers is estimated at 5.1 MTs, while other users outside the processors use about 1m MTs.
The current rice production according to an estimate from the Wheat Farmers Association of Nigeria (WFAN) is about 420,000 MTs, with production estimated to reach over 600,000 MTs when harvest begins in the next two months.
Few months ago, the price of wheat hit N32, 000 per 100kg bag, forcing prices of flour and other household consumables like bread to go up.
Domestic production of wheat is moving at a very slow pace because there are many issues that make it be on a declining trajectory since 2018.
ABP not rolling 
Since 2018, wheat farmers stopped benefitting from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)
Anchor Borrower
Programme (ABP)
after accessing about N2.3 billion that year.
This year, about 285,000 farmers have been validated by the CBN, but their issue with their financial institution over the 2018 poor loan recovery rate, which was about 40 percent, is counting against them.
The President of WFAN, Alhaji Salim Mohammed Sale, told Daily Trust that they were not participating in the ABP despite having about 285,000 farmers cleared and qualified for it.
Alhaji Sale said because of the poor recovery rate, the first participating financial institution withdrew from them and that their attempt to change to another bank was not accepted by CBN.
The same thing happened in 2019 when 11,000 farmers were cleared but did not access the fund because of the 2018 recovery rate.
Alhaji Sale further said, “This year we engaged 285,000 farmers and CBN has validated the list.
After speaking with Unity Bank, they said they were not interested in working with us, so we moved to Keystone Bank.
After meeting all the requirements necessary, Keystone wrote a letter looking for the cash backing of the programme, but there were challenges because we have one exposure which we were unable to pay…
So we were told to go back to Unity Bank where we have the exposure.
“However, we highlighted three or four points; that they should continue with the programme with us so that one, we will have sustainability in wheat production; two, defaulting farmers are not the ones to be engaged in the programme so that it will serve as a lesson to them and it will encourage them to pay back and rejoin; three, we will have learnt from our past experiences in recovery and come up with something more effective in the recovery system; and four, deployment of mechanisation that will make the programme sustainable.”
He pointed out that the best way was not to stop the programme completely, but to evolve other ways that would improve recovery, adding that not all rice, maize and cotton farmers paid all their loans, but that the programme still continued for those crops.
He said this was going to affect wheat production, noting that even with the ABP, many farmers were still not willing to go into its production.
Alhaji Sale explained that, “It was the association that brought courage for farmers to go into production because of the agreement between them and the offtakers.
You cannot grow something that you do not have a market for.
We tried and created the market between us and the millers.
Even individuals in wheat farming come through the association to sell the product to the milling plants; and they find it very easy.
“Now that they are not in the programme, the farmers find it very difficult to sell the product in the market.
Two, there is insufficiency already in the subsector of wheat.
The only way you can reduce that and cut down the import bill we are paying is by engaging multiple farmers to produce.”
Seeds looted in Jos 
Daily Trust gathered from reliable sources at the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development that during the #EndSARS protest, about 3,600 bags of improved wheat seeds were looted.
The grains were stored in Jos, the Plateau State capital, because of its conducive weather.
Since the looting, no farmer has received any assistance in terms of cash and planting materials.
Despite insufficient certified seeds, some farmers get seeds through the community seed production system whereby each farmer saves seeds against the following production season.

There should be stability in food prices – CEO, Titan Farms
Following the skyrocketing inflation in the country, an Ibadan-based rice farmer and the Chief Executive Officer of Titan Farms, Engr Gbenga Eyiolawi, has urged government at all levels to ensure price stability in food items across the country.
Eyiolawi said instability in the prices of food items has serious effects on the budget and expenditure of families and households, urging government at all levels to be more responsible and responsive to their responsibilities.
Speaking during the launch of Titan Farms City, an affiliate of Titan Farms, a combination of real estate and agriculture, he said his company would ensure an all-year-round supply of food items in affordable prices.
“Titan Farms City, which is a marriage between real estate and agriculture, is where we cultivate, instead of just processing.
At present, we only process.
Of course, we want to ensure an all-year-round supply; so, all our produce are to be processed right here,” he said.
On how to address the rising cost of food items, he said, “We cannot give an immediate solution to the challenge, but we can do a projection of what would be a solution in the nearest future.
That is why we have the Titan Farm City to ensure that there is enough availability of stock and raw materials for processing, and to ensure uniformity of prices over a period of time.
“We are working and collaborating with existing farmers.
At present, we have 52 farms that have signed agreements with us to help them process their harvests.’’

Gunmen attack bullion van, cart away undisclosed amount of money
Two people are feared killed after armed men attacked a bank bullion van at Elemosho Village along Akure-Ondo Expressway in Ondo East Local Government Area of Ondo on Thursday evening.
Witnesses said the robbers came in a Lexus car, waylaid and attacked the bullion van headed toward Akure around 5pm and made away with an undisclosed amount of money.
Three people were shot in the operation, which last minutes before the gunmen ran into the bush, witnesses said.
“One of the victims was alive while it was not sure whether the other two survived it,” a witness said.
Residents also fled into the bush in the wake of the sporadic shooting.
Two of three vehicles in a convoy were riddled with bullets in the attack.
The eyewitness added that the men of the Ondo State Security Network Agency, Amotekun, were invited to the scene and took one victims to the hospital.
Commander of the Amotekun, Adetunji Adeleye, confirmed the incident.
“When we got the information, my men moved in there and met one of the persons that were shot at the scene and we have taken him to the hospital.”
There has been no casualty, he added.
Similarly, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Tee-Leo Ikoro said the robbers had ran away before police arrived the scene.
He said the command had commenced investigation into the incident and the detectives from the command had been on the trail of the robbers.

First UAE ambassador to Israel takes up post
Israel’s president on Monday formally received the first-ever ambassador from the United Arab Emirates to the Jewish state, following last year’s historic agreement between the countries to normalise ties.
UAE envoy, Mohamed Al Khaja, who arrived in Israel earlier Monday, delivered his credentials to Israeli President, Reuven Rivlin, at a ceremony in Jerusalem.
After greeting Khaja in Arabic, Rivlin said: “The entire Israeli people welcome you with joy.
“This will be your most important mission – to welcome the hands reaching out to you… treaties are signed by leaders, but real, sustained peace is made between peoples, face to face,” the president said.
Khaja said he would “work tirelessly to strengthen the political ties between our two countries, in the service of our peoples and regional stability.”
The UAE was the first country to agree to establish full diplomatic relations with the Jewish state under the Abraham Accords, a pact brokered by former US President Donald Trump.
The agreement made the UAE only the third majority Arab nation to form official ties with Israel, following Egypt in 1979 and Jordan in 1994.
Bahrain, Morocco and Sudan have subsequently joined the Abraham Accords.
The agreements broke with a longstanding Arab consensus that there should be no normalisation with Israel until it reaches a comprehensive peace deal with the Palestinians.
Earlier Monday, Khaja met Foreign Minister Gabi Ashkenazi in Jerusalem, who wished him success in his “historic mission”.
Khaja told Ashkenazi he was “very proud and honoured to be the first Emirati ambassador to the State of Israel”.
Israel opened its UAE embassy in January, with veteran diplomat Eitan Naeh heading the Abu Dhabi mission.
Israel and the UAE have already signed treaties on direct flights and visa-free travel, along with accords on investment protection, science and technology.
On Tuesday, Khaja was scheduled to visit Yad Vashem, Israel’s national Holocaust memorial and education centre.(AFP)

US Congress certifies Joe Biden’s election win
The US Congress, on Thursday, certified Joe Biden as the next US president, dealing a blow to Donald Trump, whose supporters stormed the Capitol hours earlier, triggering unprecedented chaos and violence in the seat of American democracy.
Lawmakers in the Senate and House of Representatives successfully beat back Republican efforts to deny Biden the electoral votes from swing states Arizona and Pennsylvania.
After a mob breached the US Capitol and sent lawmakers scrambling for safety, members of Congress returned shaken but undeterred to fulfill their duty in certifying Biden’s 306-232 Electoral College win.
Lawmakers voted down the two challenges to Biden’s victory, with several Trump loyalists reversing course in the wake of the violence that drew shock around the world.
Egged on in an extraordinary rally across town by an aggrieved Trump, a flag-waving mob broke down barricades outside the Capitol and swarmed inside, rampaging through offices and onto the usually solemn legislative floors.
Security forces fired tear gas in a four-hour operation to clear the Capitol.
Police said that one woman, reportedly a female Trump partisan from southern California, was shot and killed and that three other people died in the area in circumstances that were unclear.
(AFP)

Red-hot Iheanacho, Onuachu, Osimhen make Super Eagles list for Cameroon friendly
Technical Adviser of Nigeria’s
Senior National Football team, Gernot Rohr, has drawn up a provisional squad list of 31 players for the Super Eagles’ prestige international friendly game against five-time African champions Cameroon in Austria on Friday, 4th June 2021.
The game will take place at the Wiener Neustadt in the Austrian capital, Vienna starting from 8.30 pm Austria time.
The duo of Kelechi Iheanacho (Leicester City, England), Victor Osimhen (Napoli, Italy) and Paul Onuachu (KRC Genk, Belgium), who are in top form for their respective clubs, top the list unveiled on Friday which also has Captain Ahmed Musa.
Other top players in the list are deputy captain William Ekong, goalkeeper Maduka Okoye, defenders Kenneth Omeruo and Chidozie Awaziem, midfielders Wilfred Ndidi and Oghenekaro Etebo and forward Samuel Chukwueze.
Super Eagles youngsters, Victor Osimhen (L) and Samuel Chukuweze celebrate after winning bronze at the 2019 AFCON in Egypt.
Portugal-based Abraham Marcus is called for the first time and Enyimba FC’s energetic forward Anayo Iwuala, whose tenacity and drive has helped the People’s Elephant to the quarter-finals of the CAF Confederation Cup, has an opportunity to fight for a place and continue on his international footprints, following cameo appearances against the Benin Republic and Lesotho in AFCON qualifiers in March.
The provisional list of 31 will be whittled down to 23 before the Super Eagles fly to Vienna for the clash with perennial rivals Indomitable Lions.
Cameroon wrestled down the Eagles for three of their five AFCON titles (1984, 1988, 2000) but have not beaten Nigeria in regulation time since a 1-0 triumph in a 1990 FIFA World Cup qualifying match at the Stade Omnisports in Yaounde on 27th August 1989.
The Eagles lashed the Lions 4-0 in a 2018 FIFA World Cup qualifying match in Uyo in September 2017 and were forced to a 1-1 draw in the reverse fixture in Yaounde, setting the stage for Nigeria’s qualification for the finals in Russia.
THE FULL LIST
Goalkeepers:
Francis Uzoho (APOEL Nicosia, Cyprus); John Noble (Enyimba FC); Maduka Okoye (Sparta Rotterdam, The Netherlands); Ikechukwu Ezenwa (Heartland FC)
Defenders:
Kenneth Omeruo (CD Leganes, Spain); Kevin Akpoguma (Hoffenheim, Germany); Chidozie Awaziem (FC Boavista, Portugal); William Ekong (Watford FC, England); Olaoluwa Aina (Fulham FC, England); Jamilu Collins (SC Padeborn 07, Germany); Zaidu Sanusi (FC Porto, Portugal); Tyronne Ebuehi (FC Twente, The Netherlands); Oluwasemilogo Ajayi (West Bromwich Albion, England)
Midfielders: Oghenekaro Etebo (Galatasaray FC, Turkey); Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester City, England); Abdullahi Shehu (Omonia Nicosa, Cyprus); Joseph Ayodele-Aribo (Glasgow Rangers, Scotland); Abraham Marcus (CD Feirense, Portugal)
Forwards: Ahmed Musa (Kano Pillars FC); Alex Iwobi (Everton FC, England); Sadiq Umar (Almeria FC, Spain); Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal FC, Spain); Victor Osimhen (Napoli FC, Italy); Kelechi Iheanacho (Leicester City, England); Moses Simon (FC Nantes, France); Henry Onyekuru (Galatasaray FC, Turkey); Anayo Iwuala (Enyimba FC); Peter Olayinka (Slavia Praha, Czech Republic); Terem Moffi (FC Lorient, France); Paul Onuachu (KRC Genk, Belgium); Simy Nwankwo (Crotone FC, Italy)

Drawing Nigeria back from the brinks
The worsening security challenges in the country seem to be getting out of hand.
Many who have so far commented on the issue have painted pictures of hopelessness.
To say the least, it has reached a point of despair and as human beings, Nigerians are beginning to doubt if we can survive it and live together once again in a peaceful society.
Prominent personalities in the country seem to have given up hope which has led to their conclusion that the only way out of the quagmire is for the federal government to seek foreign assistance to be able to tackle the security challenges.
The main opposition political party in the country, the PDP, had also added voice in telling the All Progressives Congress, APC-led government at the centre that Nigeria needs external help to address the festering insecurity in the country.
On his part, the immediate past President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, said President Muhammadu Buhari is overwhelmed by the security challenges, insisting that the federal government needs urgent help and must seek such without wasting time.
He also advised the president to bring together all former presidents and heads of state, serving and former chief justices, serving and former presiding officers of the National Assembly, serving and former heads of security agencies, traditional rulers with relevant experience, leaders of the private sector, development partners, friends of Nigeria in the international community and all others who can help in finding solutions to the problem at hand.
The ex-senate leader further called on the National Assembly “to be more assertive in finding solutions to this issue of insecurity” adding that the legislature would not be helping the Buhari administration if they did not become more insistent and decisive in their approach to getting the security crisis tackled immediately.
The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu, said that Nigeria needs unity to surmount the current security challenges, observing that every nation will go through difficult times and ‘we must unite to succeed.’
He added that no president wants a country in chaos, noting that only a concerted and united response will end the numerous security challenges.
“The best way is what we are doing; coming together to reduce banditry, to move for unity and be able to bring a better Nigeria to the people.
The welfare of our people is extremely important.
And yes, every nation will go through these curves and difficult times.
How we communicate it to the people, what are the areas to help make it easier for people to bear; those are ideas on how to be able to change the leadership of the country,” he explained.
The truth, however, is that the situation is not yet too bad as is being projected by many stakeholders.
All hopes are not yet lost.
This is not to say that they are not right in their observations and recommendations.
The situation can be salvaged through collaboration with all stakeholders especially the traditional rulers, religious leaders, synergy among security agencies and the ability of the federal government to provide a level-playing field devoid of ethnic, religious or political interests.
Time has come when the role of traditional rulers in peace keeping must be recognised at all levels.
They are the custodians of the people’s culture and to some extent, their religion.
Traditional rulers, because of their closeness to the people, can play a great role in solving the security challenges if properly mobilised and engaged at local government, state and federal levels.
If the traditional rulers at various localities across the country are fully engaged, they can  be the major source of information to the security agencies in terms of identifying any criminal elements lurking around their domains because they know who is who in those areas.
There is also the need for security agencies to work together in the fight against insecurity in the land.
There must be a uniting force among them so that at any point one agency must not be away from what the other is doing to avoid not only duplication of duty but also to be on the alert based on information passed across various formations.
The ugly incident that took place in Maiduguri some days ago where a fighter jet belonging to Nigerian Air Force bombed soldiers going to repel Boko Haram attack is a clear indication of lack of proper information and coordination among the two agencies.
All the relevant agencies at the theater of war must be up and doing in information gathering and sharing among themselves to know when, where and how to strike when the enemy approaches or at most to, through such information, nip in the bud plans of such an enemy and prevent them from approaching not to talk of striking.
Religious leaders through their various organisations such as Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs, SCIA, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, PFN, among others, must also be engaged and enlightened on what to preach to their followers and how to monitor their activities.
These men of God are respected by their followers to the extent that whatever they preach is always swallowed hook and sinker whether such utterances would cause chaos or not.
They should be properly mobilised and sensitised on the dangers of wrong preaching that could pitch the various religious sects against each other.
Examples abound where crises have erupted from worship centres due to what the leaders must have told their followers to do, either to retaliate one perceived injustice or the other.
With proper sensitisation, such would not happen because they must have been educated on what to preach and what not to preach while with their followers.
It is pertinent to state here, however, that all these would come to nothing if government at all levels fail to provide a level-playing field for peace to reign.
Governments at all levels must strive to provide basic amenities that could engage the youths and take their minds away from crime.
In trying to solve the security challenges, governments must always ensure that they do not take sides based on ethnic, religious or political differences when addressing issues of security breaches.
Perpetrators of crime must be treated equally according to laws of the land no matter who is involved.
A clear example of treating some criminals with kid gloves is the purported arrest of some operators of Bureau De Change in Kano that are allegedly sponsoring activities of Boko Haram insurgents.
Up till now, their identities have not been revealed which has had a negative effect on the fight against insurgency.
Government must ensure that they are always in touch with the people especially at the grassroots level for them to know what it is doing about the present situation in the country in order not to allow rumours to thrive.
With these, Nigeria will surely surmount the security challenge that has bedevilled her for over a decade now with much ease.
Dr. Emmanuel Nkemdi is public affairs analyst, resides in Abuja

NDLEA, Customs intercept 4.9million Tramadol capsules at Onne Port
Officers of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) and the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) have intercepted a container bearing 4,996,200 capsules of Tramadol weighing 2,498.2 kg at Onne Port, Port Harcourt, Rivers State.
In separate statements spokesperson of NDLEA, Femi Babafemi, and that of NCS’s
Area II Command, Onne Port, Mrs Ifeoma Ojukwu, said the consignment was intercepted on Tuesday.
The illicit drug was packaged in 1,387 cartons and concealed in 1,000 cartons of ceramic tiles.
Ojukwu said that the seizure was made possible with help from international partners.
Meanwhile, the NDLEA said a 42-year-old Muntari Hamidu was arrested in Nyibango, Jimeta, Yola, Adamawa State, with 13 sacks of cannabis sativa weighing 166kg.
This is just as 35-year-old Sani Musa was nabbed with16.1kg of skunk at Ngurore, Yola South LGA of the state.
Babafemi said that both were arrested on Sunday, 16 May, 2021.
According to him, on the same day, a team of NDLEA operatives from Ondo State Command also arrested one James Godspower with 36.5kg of cannabis sativa in Faloye, Ogbese, Akure North LGA of Ondo State.
Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of NDLEA, Brig-Gen.
Mohammad Buba Marwa (Rtd), lauded the renewed synergy between the agency and other security agencies in its operations, even as he commended the officers and men of the Port Harcourt Command, as well as those of Adamawa and Ondo states for their resilience and commitment to work, while charging them to remain vigilant.

IPOB: Residents shun ‘sit-at-home order’ in Ebonyi
Residents in Ebonyi State, on Saturday, shunned the sit-at-home order proposed by the supreme leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (lPOB), Nnamdi Kanu.
Daily Trust gathered that markets, hotels, Abakiliki Rice mill, motor parks and shops opened for business on Saturday.
Taxi,  Tricycle and motorcycles were also operational.
Our correspondent, who went round the Abakiliki metropolis and its environs, also observed that security agencies patrol some major roads in the city on Saturday.
Kanu had, on Thursday, cautioned people of the Southeast against flouting the May 29 sit-at-home order.
Although there is still panic owing to rumour that the exercise was shifted to hold on Monday.
IPOB had said: “We, the global family of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), ably led by the prophet of our time, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, wish to announce once again, that this year’s annual Biafra Remembrance Day and candlelight procession will take place on Sunday night 30th of May, while a sit-at-home and total lockdown takes place on Monday, 31st May, 2021, and not May 30th as earlier announced.”

Tottenham’s top-four hopes in danger after Leeds defeat
Leeds beat managerless Tottenham 3-1 on Saturday to put a huge dent in their ambitions of securing a coveted Premier League top-four spot.
Son Heung-min cancelled out Stuart Dallas’s early goal for Leeds midway the first half but Patrick Bamford restored the home side’s lead and substitute Rodrigo struck late on.
Spurs, who sacked Jose Mourinho last month, remain eight points behind third-placed Chelsea but now have just three games left – one fewer than their London rivals.
It means Tottenham, beaten Champions League finalists in 2019, are almost certain to miss out on playing in Europe’s
elite club competition for a second consecutive season.
They even face a fight to qualify for the Europa League after their first league defeat under interim boss Ryan Mason.
“Leeds know what they’re doing, they play a certain way and it took us a while to get into the game,” Mason told BT Sport.
“In the second half, we were the better team.
The moments we had, you have to take them in these games.
“Today was a massive game for us, to lose it hurts.
It’s difficult to win in the Premier League
but we’ve got to have our full attention on next week now.”
‘Big six’ Leeds, who climbed above Arsenal into ninth place, produced another scintillating display against one of the Premier League’s “big six”.
Marcelo Bielsa’s side, promoted last season, started brightly and took an early lead when Dallas smashed home in the 13th minute.
Jack Harrison fizzed the ball across the box from the left and Tottenham goalkeeper Hugo Lloris did well to save Sergio Reguilon from scoring an own goal.
But he could do nothing to prevent Dallas from smashing home from close range at the back post.
Tottenham hit back to equalise with their first shot on target on the counter-attack in the 25th minute.
Dele Alli’s clever through-ball carved Leeds open and Son raced clear to side-foot home.
Harry Kane thought he had given the visitors the lead when he dinked home after combining brilliantly with Alli and Son but his cool finish was ruled out after VAR confirmed he had been marginally offside.
Leeds regained the lead in the 42nd minute as Bamford finished from close range for his 15th Premier League goal of the season following Ezgjan Alioski’s cut-back.
Kane had another effort ruled out for offside early in the second half as Spurs pushed for an equaliser and then rattled the bar from a free-kick with less than 20 minutes to go.
But it was Leeds who struck again to seal the three points, with Rodrigo finishing after a cross from fellow substitute Raphinha with just six minutes left.
Leeds are the first side to remain unbeaten at home in a Premier League season against Arsenal, Chelsea, Liverpool, Manchester City, Manchester United and Spurs since West Ham in 2015/16.
(AFP)

The Africa we strive for is possible in unity and solidarity
By Mevlüt Çavusoglu
I would like congratulate all our African friends on May 25 in commemoration of the Africa Day wholeheartedly.
We remember with appreciation the African countries coming together under the roof of the Organisation of African Unity (OAU), later African Union (AU), on May 25, 1963, predicating on independence and freedom, and displaying a common consciousness based on solidarity and unity.
The success story reached in the following decades in this spirit and understanding gives us hope for a bright future of the continent.
Without a colonial past and having attained its full independence with its struggle against the occupation forces during the War of Independence, Turkey is one of the countries that best grasps the meaning of this day.
We are happy to share today this common joy, conscious of the importance of remembering the struggle for independence by the peoples of Africa for freedom, equality and justice, and evoking the founding goals of the AU.
Our approach to African countries completely matches the founding principles of the AU and is built on a holistic, inclusive, equal partnership on the basis of mutual respect and win-win strategy.
We share the spirit of 1963 and the vision of Africa and attach great importance to Agenda 2063 and UN 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
In our concerted journey, which gained momentum with our observer membership status to the AU in 2005, we have covered plenty of ground with the First Turkey-Africa Partnership Summit that we hosted in Istanbul, and by being declared a strategic partner of the union in 2008.
After the Second Turkey-Africa Partnership Summit held in Malabo in 2014, our ties with African countries have become stronger.
We hope to host the third summit in our country in September, which we believe will offer opportunities for a strong and comprehensive cooperation between Turkey and Africa.
We continue to contribute to peace and stability and economic and social development in Africa through our public institutions, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and the private sector.
Our Africa Initiative and Africa Partnership policies, considered among the most successful initiatives of our foreign policy, constitute an added value to our relations with the continent.
We can see this constructive effect in many areas such as trade, investment, culture, security, military cooperation and development, and especially in our intensifying and developing political relations with Africa in the last decade.
We are pleased to observe that African countries also attach importance to strengthening cooperation with our country.
We continue to integrate Turkey and Africa in all areas.
While the number of our diplomatic missions in the continent was only 12 in 2002, we increased this number to 43, with our embassy opened in Togo last month.
African countries also increased the number of their embassies in Ankara from 10 in 2008 to 37.
Turkey, which is the fifth country in the world in terms of the number of diplomatic missions, continues to bring the issues of Africa to the agenda at the global level with its wide diplomacy network, and also continues to cooperate with African countries in regional and international platforms.
We continue to develop our commercial and economic relations with a win-win approach.
Despite pandemic conditions, we managed to keep our trade volume close to the previous year
’s data.
The total value of our direct investments in Africa has exceeded $6bn.
Our Turkish contractors contribute to Africa’s development by undertaking more than 1,150 projects.
We appreciate the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement (AfCFTA), which is considered the most important project of Agenda 2063.
We are ready to share our experiences with our African friends and provide support in this regard.
Development and humanitarian aid of Turkey continues to contribute to the creation of favourable conditions for the establishment of a prosperous Africa.
The official development aid provided by our public institutions to Africa between 2005 and 2019 has reached almost $3.5bn.
In line with the Addis Ababa Action Agenda commitments, our total development aid for 46 Least Developed Countries (LDCs), 33 of which are in Africa, was $8.7bn between 2009 and 2019.
We are also pleased that the sustainable development projects of the Turkish Cooperation and Coordination Agency (TİKA), which representation office number has reached 22 in Africa and which bilateral official development assistance for the continent exceeded $500m, are embraced throughout the continent.
The Turkish Maarif Foundation (TMF) has been providing education services to more than 14,000 students with 144 schools and 16 dormitories all over Africa.
The number of our African students who graduated with the Turkiye Scholarships programme has exceeded 15,000.
Holding the honour of being the only foreign company that flies to the highest number of destinations, including 60 cities in Africa, Turkish Airlines continues to contribute to the reunion of Africa with the rest of the world.
We did not leave our African friends alone during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Within the framework of the pandemic, we provided medical equipment donations, cash donations or purchase permission assistance for the export and purchasing of medical supplies to 44 African countries.
The approximate value of relief aid material we made to the region has reached $12m, and the amount of our financial aid has reached $6m.
Turkey’s endeavours for developing vaccines against COVID-19 is also continuing.
We are determined to complete our vaccine activities in autumn and offer these to the service of all humanity, especially to African countries.
The theme of “Silencing the Guns: Creating Conducive Conditions for Africa’s Development and Intensifying the Fight Against the COVID-19 Epidemic” set for Africa Day celebrations to be held online this year due to the pandemic is in harmony with Turkey’s humanitarian and entrepreneurial foreign policy agenda.
Standing against all kinds of violence, advocating the resolution of disputes through dialogue, and conducting mediation activities when needed, our country strongly supports the goal of “silencing the guns”.
Turkey, along with its different mediation and facilitation roles undertaken across the world, is also the Co-Chair of the Group of Friends of Mediation established under the UN, the OSCE and the OIC.
We believe that our joint effort with the AU, which is a member of the friends group in UN, will contribute to security and stability in Africa.
With its innovative steps, Turkey shapes not only the diplomacy of today, but also that of the future.
In 2019, we announced the Digital Diplomacy initiative by taking advantage of the transformative power of technology.
We believe Africa’s recent focus on digitalisation for sustainable development is spot-on.
Within this context, we have observed with pleasure that digital transformation is recommended to achieve Agenda 2063 targets and to ensure sustainable economic recovery in the “Africa’s Development Dynamics:
Digital Transformation for Quality Jobs” report published by the AU this year despite COVID-19.
We are ready to work with our African friends in the field of digital transformation.
We will continue to be in unity and solidarity with African countries and the AU with the strength and inspiration we derive from our centuries-old historical, cultural and human relations with Africa.
I avail myself of this opportunity to congratulate Africans on this day with heartfelt feelings.
Çavusoglu is the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Turkey

Blackmail counterproductive to development, economic growth  — Gov Emmanuel
Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel, has urged the people to shun blackmail as such vices is inimical and counterproductive to economic growth and development with huge undesirable consequences.
The Governor gave this charge when he led top government functionaries to a special Inter-Denominational Thanksgiving Service to mark the 6th anniversary of his administration on Sunday at Believers Assembly of Nigeria, Uyo.
Governor Emmanuel who reflected on the mercies of God which he acknowledged gave him wisdom to lead the state through a turbulent economic time occasioned by the outbreak of Covid-19, appreciated the support of Akwa Ibom people, and described them as partners in the success story of the state.
“We are standing here to give God all the glory, the psalmists will tell you, ‘O give thanks unto the Lord for He is good for His Mercies endureth forever’.
We are thanking God for extremely tough six years economically, we’ve been challenged on all sides but we are not depressed.
So we want to give God thanks for those six challenging years God has led us, he has helped us to keep faith,” he stated.
He assured the people of delivering on all his promises, pointing out that his commitment to the development of the state remains absolute as he will continue to serve passionately and diligently.
“I want to assure my people that we will continue to serve God through all of you and please we need everyone’s cooperation just to pray with us
let God take us to where we are going.
Let me sound a bit of warning, stop castigating the Governor that he has built an International Worship Center, you don’t understand what I am doing, I am raising an altar that will negate every other speaking.
I am raising an altar that will take us to where we are going to,” he stated.
Speaking earlier on Saturday, in a state broadcast to mark his 6th anniversary, the Governor listed the many positive impact his economic and industrialization policy has had on the economy of the state, reiterating the determination of his administration to fulfill his campaign promises to the people with more vigour and determination, noting that he is in a hurry to industrialize and change the narratives of the state from being a purely civil service State to an industrialized entity.
Giving a sectoral breakdown of his achievements in office, the Governor said in the agricultural sector, he has kept his promise to ensure that the state produce enough food at affordable prices to feed the people.
He recalled that his inauguration of the Technical Committee on Agriculture and Food Sufficiency have borne incredible fruits.
“Our staple food items such as garri, rice, yam etc are produced mostly by our people here.
From the rice mill in Ini Local Government Area, to the numerous garri processing mills scattered all over the three senatorial districts, to our low interest loans given to farmers, to the cassava plantation through the FADAMA 3 scheme, we are working to ensure that our people have enough food to eat at quite affordable prices
“Our investments in this critical sector goes beyond making food available for all, we are also leveraging in on our comparative advantage in agriculture through the establishment of a fully functional Directorate of Agriculture and Agro-Allied Investments”, he stated.
In the health sector, the Governor noted with delight that when he came in, most of the general hospitals were derelict as patients and hospital staff were battling snakes and other reptiles every day.
He stated that his administration has equipped the Ibom Specialist Hospital with the most modern medical facilities compete with an ICU and these huge investments came in handy during the challenging months of the Covid-19 pandemic as the highly trained medical professionals performed exceedingly well to stem the spread of the deadly virus.
Listing the achievements of his industrialization policy, Governor Emmanuel said, through the efforts of the Technical Committee on Foreign Direct Investments, he has attracted over twenty economically viable and employment – generating Industries to the state including the Coconut Virgin Oil Refinery, a digitalized flour mill which produces the flour we need for our confectioneries industry, the Metering company, the commencement of the Liberty Oil and Gas Free Zone, the Ground breaking ceremony for the construction of Sterling petrochemicals and Fertilizer production factory, the $1.4 billion Ammonia and Fertilizer plant, and Ibom Air which he noted has become a national sensation.

Explainer: What you should know about cattle-ranching
With the incessant attacks between farmers and herders, state governments, mostly in the South, have resolved to ban open grazing and adopt ranching as an alternative to the age-long practice of herders roaming with their cattle to seek pasture for their herd.
As the call for the adoption of ranching grows, herders, who are mostly drawn from the Fulani ethnic group, have expressed lack of knowledge on how the new system would work for them.
This is evident in a statement made by the Sarkin Fulani of Iwo in Osun State, Alhaji Momodu Adamu, during a summit in which he stated that “most Fulani are unaware of what ranching means.
Ranching is strange to us.
We are willing to learn.
We want the government to teach us about it.
We will continue to live in peace.”
What is ranching
The National Geographic said ranching involves rearing livestock, especially cattle, on a vast area of land.
This activity, which is business oriented, enable livestock to graze in a controlled land for pastures, fodders and water provided for consumption through purchase of hays and growing of pasture.
The practice is not a sedentary mode of grazing since the spacious land allows herders to walk around with their herd to consume grown fodder in a confined area.
However, growing fodder in the grazing area might not be sustainable as lack of rainfall or water to grow it would result in shortage.
Overgrazing is another factor making it unsustainable.
The concentration of livestock in an area, as ranching offers, reduces the proclivity of fat reduction among cattle as well as contributes to the livestock subsector.
National Geographic notes that “Ranching is an efficient way to raise livestock to provide meat, dairy products, and raw materials for fabrics.
It is a vital part of economies and rural development around the world.”
But the livestock industry has effects on the environment through contributing to air and water pollution.
Harmful products from ranches can include manure, antibiotics and hormones given to the animals, as well as fertilizers and pesticides.
Similarly, chemicals from tanneries that treat animal hides can also seep into water.
Facilities
In an article, Encyclopedia Britannica states that barns, which serve as shelters, are the most important elements in a ranch.
This facility is enclosed thus wouldn’t be suitable for a nomadic herder who has developed a strong relation with his herd.
As such, a pen would be more suitable to keep a close eye on them.
Other facilities are a milk parlour, mowers, tractors, hay barns, water irrigation system and a stall barn for the animals to rest, feed, milk and watered.
With electricity not reliable, components of solar can be a feature in ranches in Nigeria.
Ranching and the National Livestock Transformation Plan
A human rights lawyer Femi Falana said that “ranching is not a new development in Nigeria with the first ranch in Nigeria established in Cross River State at Obudu in 1951 by the British,” but was taken over by Eastern Regional Government after independence.
He added that the Awolowo regime had a ranch in Akunnu, now Ondo State with Ahmadu Bello establishing one in Mokwa, Niger State.
During Yakubu Gowon’s regime, Audu Bako had the best ranches in the country in Kano.
Also, there are grazing reserves which are domiciled on bigger lands that house many herders and their families in some parts of the north.
With the ranches no longer functioning, the federal government in 2018 introduced the National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP).
The plan which was piloted in Adamawa in 2019 had the backing of the National Economic Council composed of the governors of the 36 States governors and chaired by the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo.
The NLTP is a N100 billion 10-year initiative (2019-2027) that would ensure Economic growth and avert the farmers/herders crises.
The plan will see to the creation of four ranch sizes housing 30, 60, 150 and 300 cows with feeding facilities, watering facilities, a market and a breeder ranch for a minimum of 1,000 cattle.
Osinbajo in a speech during the launch of the programme said the ranches would propel integrated business centre for commercial crop production, the supply of livestock materials and facilitation of improved access to basic services for herders.
According to him, participating states “will provide the land as its own contribution to the project.
The Federal government merely supports the project.
It is a plan that hopes to birth tailor-made ranches where cattle are bred, and meat and dairy products are produced using modern livestock methods.”
During his presentation, he delinked the NLTP from the controversial cattle ranching colony, RUGA, which was perceived in some quarters as a land-grabbing project by the federal government to house herders and their families in a particular area.

2023: Disquiet in Kwara APC over governor’s sister
The protracted leadership crisis rocking the Kwara State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) took a new twist following calls for the removal of Senator Khairat Gwadabe, a sister to Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, from the Membership Registration Appeal Panel set up by the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Committee by some aggrieved founding members the party in the state.
The call for Khairat’s removal is coming on the heels of the fierce struggle for the control of the soul of the party in the state between the governor and some aggrieved leaders over the second term ticket for 2023 as the next electioneering campaign beckons.
The governor and some notable leaders in the party have been at loggerheads since the administration came into power in 2019 in the state over disagreement in his style of leadership.
But despite some spirited efforts to bring everybody on the same page, according to insiders in the party, the issue appears to have festered, with the latest imbroglio having the potential to consume the party in the race for the top seat come 2023 if the needful is not done by uniting all the forces that collectively defeated the last Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administration in the state, led by former Senate President Bukola Saraki.
For many members of the aggrieved group, which has the support of top party leaders like the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed and his counterpart for transport (state), Gbemisola Saraki, under the factional caretaker chairman, Hon Bashiru Omolaja Bolarinwa (BOB), Khairat’s inclusion in the membership of the committee was part of a grand plan by the governor to hijack the party machinery in the state in the build-up to the 2023 elections.
Some of the top leaders and party supporters in the state, who said they had been disenfranchised from the registration/revalidation process, pointed accusing fingers at the former senator, who they accused of working with the Senator John Danboi’s committee which headed the last exercise in the state to disenfranchise leaders and members believed to be against the governor.
Her membership status of the committee, they argued, was to finish the work she started in the state at the national level to remove any obstacle against the second term ticket of the governor and pave the way for his smooth emergence as the party’s candidate in the next gubernatorial election.
In one of the press releases that have since trailed the issue, a faction of the APC in the state believed to be loyal to the camp of Lai Mohammed and other aggrieved leaders, openly rejected the inclusion of Senator Gwadabe in the 61-member committee.
The group, known as Integrity Group, in a statement signed by Comrade Abdul-Rahoof Bello, declared the appointment as unacceptable.
According to the group, “Here was a governor’s sister who worked in tandem with the Danboi committee to commit all sorts of atrocities and impunities against the party’s interest in Kwara State.”
Their call was echoed by another group believed to be fronting for the minister, Concerned APC Youth Stakeholders, which petitioned the national secretariat of the party as run by the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) over the issue, alleging the over 600,000 of its members have been disenfranchised with the connivance of Senator Khairat.
But shortly after their positions were made known, the governor’s men and foot soldiers also went to town with their trumpet to drum support for the governor and his sister over the matter.
It was the publicity secretary of the party, Alhaji Folaranmi Aro, a staunch loyalist of the governor that fired the first salvo thus, “Those against the senator’s inclusion have no basis.’’
Under the aegis of the Reformist Progressive Forum, the group that supports the governor, in a rejoinder to the statement by the Integrity Group, noted that Senator Gwadabe’s rejection “by the group of political puppets in Kwara is baseless and unfounded.
This is unreasonable, illogical and destructive criticism.’’
When contacted for comment, Saheed Popoola, a loyalist of the minister and lawmaker in the Kwara State House of Assembly from Offa, told Daily Trust Saturday that he was not in town.
But a top member of the party and diehard supporter of the minister from Kwara Central said although Alhaji Lai Mohammed and few others registered despite condemnation of the exercise, the action was in demonstration and solidarity with prominent national leaders of the party like Chief Bisi Akande and Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who did but still faulted the process, calling for improvement.
But on the issue of how this might affect the party’s chances in 2023, the top party official said, “There is still a long way to go, and many considerations may be laid on the table before then.
Our workings now are first to get the sham which the last exercise clearly was upturned and get the national leadership to approve the conduct of a fresh exercise in the state.
For Kunle Suleiman, a lawyer and pioneer chairman of the PDP in the state and an unrepentant apologist of the governor, what is happening is politics and the party will rise above it when the time comes.
He, however, said their concern was how to deliver good governance, which the governor promised.
However, a member of the AA group and supporter of the governor in Ilorin west told Daily Trust Saturday that those aggrieved party members kicking against the inclusion of Senator Khairat were jesters.
He added that the party had since moved on from that exercise.
“For God’s sake, those who are complaining don’t know what they are doing and saying.
Khairat is a member of the APC and can be made a member of any committee based on her contributions and recognition in the party.
She is entitled to it.
If she is a sister to the governor, should that deny her right?
“In politics, and where you have factions, this type of thing happens.
Somebody that is not given something always complains; and those complaining now belong to BOB and Lai’s group.
They thought they could control the registration exercise and party politics but now realised that it has suddenly moved out of their hands.
They are complaining because they lost in the party’s power game for now, “he added.
He, however, said the party would get its acts together in the remaining two years, adding, “We came to the APC in factions.
These same people that are saying the governor will not get the ticket also said so during his first term and did not vote for him, yet he got it; and he will get it again.
It is about strategy and getting your politics right.
We are not afraid.
Also, the issue of the governor’s kind of politics has been at the centre of the present disagreement, with notable figures like Professor Abdulraheem Shuaib Oba and Akogun Iyiola Oyedepo describing him as a featherweight politician that could be easily discarded in 2023.
In the view of some political watchers, what has played out in the way the governor has “dealt” with Lai’s group and how he handled the registration exercise only indicate how things could get complicated in the struggle to control the party ahead of 2023.

Vandals cut off section of Warri-Itapke rail line
Vandals have cut several sections on the Itapke-Warri rail line.
In a viral video, the vandals, still unknown, used what appears to be a saw to slice through the rail line to a point where the pieces could be taken thereby exposing passengers to danger.
The incident, our correspondent gathered, happened along the Warri-Itakpe standard gauge line around KM 30 Adogo, Kogi State section of the rail.
The managing director/CEO, the Nigerian Railway Corporation, Engr.
Fidet Okhiria, confirmed the incident to our correspondent.
He, however, said the train is still being operated as there is an alternative.
“The incident happened two days ago.
But we are still in operation because we have an alternative,” he said.

Pillars battle Nasarawa Utd in top of the table clash
Kano Pillars will square up with perennial rivals, Nasarawa United this afternoon in the Nigeria Professional Football League week 23 top of the table clash at the Ahmadu Bello Stadium Kaduna.
However, in case of a draw, the winner in the other fixture between Kwara United and Rivers United in Ilorin will go to the top of the table.
While Pillars are on 41 points, Kwara United, Nasarawa United and Rivers United are on 39 points each with a chance of going to the top.
Therefore, if the two matches in Kaduna and Ilorin end in draw, Pillars will assume leadership again pending the outcome of tomorrow’s match between Abia Warriors and Akwa United in Okigwe.
Although Pillars will be motivated by Super Eagles captain, Ahmed Musa and their influential captain Rabiu Ali, they must be wary of Nasarawa United who ended their 12-year unbeaten home record with a 2-1 victory in 2015.
In today’s match, Pillars will have to put an eye on Adamu Hassan who left them under unpleasant circumstances in 2020 to rejoin his home club and has been consistent in scoring against them.
It will also be recalled that the experienced striker scored a brace against Pillars when Nasarawa United trounced them 5-0 in a friendly match last year.
And when they met in the first round of the ongoing season in Lafia, it was the same player who denied Pillars victory when he scored the equaliser in the 1-1 draw.
Hassan is, therefore, confident he will score against his former club as he told Daily Trust yesterday that he normally scores anytime he plays against Pillars.
“I know they must have mapped out their plan against me but it has been hard for them to stop me.
They think they know me
but I keep scoring against them.
“Tomorrow’s (today) match is not going to be an exception.
I know by the grace of almighty Allah, I will score again,” he said.
In other week 23 matches billed for today, Adamawa United will host Katsina United in Gombe, FC IfeanyiUbah visit Dakkada in Uyo, Lobi Stars will move from Lagos where they lost 0-1 against MFM to play Wolves in Ozoro, MFM will attempt to dim Sunshine Stars in Akure while embattled Wikki Tourists battle Enyimba in Bauchi.

Power: Nigerians spend $21bn on generators — Reps
The House of Representatives has said the manufacturing sector lost $200 billion while other Nigerians spent $21 billion on generators between 2015 and 2021 on self-generated electricity due to poor electricity supply from the national grid.
The House also called on the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) to suspend the proposed increase in electricity tariff.
According to Aniekan Umanah who moved the motion at the plenary on Thursday, NERC, working with Distribution Companies (DisCos), increased electricity tariff five times since 2015, the latest being on January1, 2021.
According to him, despite the increases, Nigerians have not enjoyed significant improvement in power generation, but grapple with epileptic supply and poor services from the DisCos.
“Poor services by the DisCos have impacted negatively on the socio-economic growth of the country as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) Report of 2020 on Nigeria indicated that the manufacturing sector lost over $200bn to inadequate power supply while a whopping $21bn was said to have been spent by Nigerians on generating sets within the period under review.”
The House, therefore, urged the federal government to direct NERC to rescind the decision to further increase electricity tariff proposed for June, 202l, in view of the hard times Nigerian masses were going through.
The house mandated the committees on power, poverty alleviation and labour, employment and productivity to ensure compliance.

Border reopening discourages hoarding in Katsina markets
The reopening of four land borders by the Federal Government last week has significantly slowed down hoarding activities in Katsina markets, Daily Trust can report.
Prior to the announcement, grain merchants and other businessmen hid under the guise of company agents to buy farm produce in bulk and store to maximise profit in the near future.
According to dealers, despite the restriction on the importation of rice and other food items, merchants were still skeptical to stockpile farm produce as government might change its decision anytime, depending on the circumstance on ground.
Alhaji Aminu Hussain, a sorghum merchant, said hoarding of farm produce was not a new business in the markets, but the practice seriously increased with the new agricultural policy of this administration and border closure.
“Many of us made huge profits on farm produce last year, that is why our people came out early in this harvest period, mopping up the produce; but the recent reopening of land borders has slowed us down.
“The fear among us now is that market price of food items will come down.”
He added that the shortfall of farm output, occasioned by incessant activities of bandits this year, had also motivated the merchants to hoard the produce.
Rice, maize and sorghum were the most targeted produce.
Mallam Muhammadu Tarzana, a grain dealer at Bakori market, said the announcement of border reopening last week had made an impact on the market price of major food items.
“Unlike last year when, by this time, maize was between N8,000 and N9,500, sorghum was N7,000, they are now sold at N14,000 and N13,000 respectively.
“The recent announcement of border reopening has crashed down the price of paddy rice from N14,000 to N12,000, sorghum from N14,500 to N13,000 and maize from N15,500 to N14,000.”
Tarzana added that most merchants withdrew from bulk purchase of the produce after the announcement, expecting that waivers for the importation of food items would follow anytime soon.
Our correspondent observed that there are mixed reactions to the land border opening.
Majority of the farmers and merchants prefer the borders to be closed so that they would continue to exploit the numerous value chains of our local agricultural produce.
Consumers, on the other hand, welcomed the recent development, in anticipation that government would allow importation of rice and other food items.
But their expectation was shattered by government’s reiteration that rice, poultry, cooking oil and other food items remained banned from importation.
Sani Mu’azu Hunkuyi, an agric expert, enjoined the Federal Government not to bow to pressure and give waivers for food importation.
“Government has invested a lot in the agricultural sector and we should not allow such huge investment to go down the drain by wavering food importation in this country.
“It is true that there is palpable fear of food crisis, but we can mitigate that through irrigation farming.
Besides, food importation will only worsen the already economic recession the country is battling with,” Mu’azu said.
He added that farmers would be seriously affected if government reversed its policy on food sufficiency.

Why flood-resistant rice is crucial to farmers
The threat to food security in Nigeria as a result of flood will soon be an issue of the past following the release of the FARO 66, a variety of rice that is resistant to flood.
FARO 66, recently released to rice farming communities by the National Cereal Research Institute (NCRI), is a variety that has characteristics and traits that are different from what local farmers are used to.
This variety is taller than other ones known to the farmers.
With its height, coupled with effective ecological farming management, it is capable of withstanding the stress of flood to a larger extent.
Acceptability of new varieties among farmers has always been a huge challenge, and the introduction of the FARO 66 is no exception.
However, when fully embraced by the farmers, the threat to food security in terms of rice production would be reduced.
During this year’s Field Day, organised by the NCRI station in Birnin Kebbi, the capital of Kebbi State, farmers and other stakeholders were introduced to the new variety after a field trip to the institute’s demonstration farm in the metropolis.
At the demonstration farm, farmers were exposed to FARO 66, which withstood the stress of the recent flood, side by side with the farm of other rice varieties that were washed away by the same flood.
The two farms, which are situated side by side, revealed the flood disaster tolerant capability of the FARO 66 variety, as despite all stress, it grew to maturity.
On the farm of the other rice variety, only the remnants of the rice plant could be seen.
Speaking to our correspondent, the head of the NCRI station in Birnin Kebbi, Andrew Shema, said the FARO 66 variety could best resist flood if planted early.
He added that with its hard stem and height, if planted early, the variety could grow to a size that when flood sets in, the plant could resist the condition.
He said FARO 66 was released two years ago, but acceptability, as is the case with any new variety, must be gradual, noting that when it becomes widely accepted among farmers, flooding would not be a threat to rice farming any more.
According to him, to sensitise the farmers as research on the improved variety progressed, they were carried along to appreciate the processes and results recorded.
He added that the scientists on the research work were optimistic that if farmers were allowed to appreciate the ability of the plant to withstand flood, acceptance of the new variety among them would not only be fast but also effective.
Shema, who said lack of sufficient funding had been their major constraint in the research work, called on all stakeholders to invest in the initiative for a better tomorrow as research is not only limited to the development of improved varieties but also created jobs, as well as developed the economy of a nation.
He explained that public lectures were also conducted as part of the day one Field Day activities, saying the essence of introducing public lectures in this year’s
activities is to bring to the notice of stakeholders that research only comes to fruition with sufficient funding.
He appealed to well-meaning Nigerians and organisations to inject enough into research.
The day two was on exhibition and application of technology in farming.
“When we said flood-tolerant, we are not saying it will not be affected by flood completely.
What we are saying is that with its characteristics and desirable trends, it would withstand flood stress to some extent.
FARO 66 is tolerant to flood because it is taller than FARO 44 and FARO 52.
Its stem is also harder than the other varieties.
Ecological management in term of timing for planting is key in resisting flood.
Early planting saves a larger proportion of the crop when flood sets in.
The moment rain starts, farmers don’t need to waste time.
They should immediately mobilise for planting.
This enables the crop to have good vigour and be established well before the flood comes,” he stated.

Chelsea and Leicester charged over players’ clash
Chelsea and Leicester City have been charged by the Football Association (FA) following a stoppage-time clash between players and staff from both teams during their Premier League game on Tuesday, the governing body said on Thursday.
Three days after Leicester beat Chelsea in the FA Cup final at Wembley, the sides met again at Stamford Bridge in a match key to their hopes of finishing in the top four.
“It is alleged that both clubs failed to ensure their players and /or club officials conducted themselves in an orderly fashion and/or refrained from provocative behaviour during the 93rd minute,” the FA said.

Para-athletics team charged to be worthy ambassadors
The Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare has charged the Nigerian Para-athletics team to Nowil, Switzerland to be worthy ambassadors of the country as they seek to qualify for the Tokyo 2020 Paralympics.
The Minister gave the charge on Sunday when he bade farewell to the team for the Qualifiers at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja.
He said, “Nigeria is solidly behind your bid for qualification for the Para- Athletics event in Notwil, Switzerland.”
In addition, he commended the special athletes as he said “There is no doubt about your abilities which you have always proved over the years.
“You must be worthy ambassadors of our dear country by conducting yourselves very well to attain the best standards for Qualifiers.
“Don’t be distracted.
Nigerians are solidly behind you.
You have always made us proud and we are confident that you will not disappoint this time by reaching the qualification threshold.
“We have done our bit, now the ball is in your court to ensure that Nigeria’s flag flies high.”
10 Athletes will be seeking to qualify in the para-athletics event taking place from 11th -17th
May 2021 at Notwil in Switzerland.

Sasakawa moves to cushion COVID-19 effects on farmers
Sasakawa Global 2000 (SG 2000) said it had initiated a process through which farmers are linked with commodity buyers as a way of cushioning the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic.
This was disclosed by the organisation’s research and training officer, Mr Benjamin Shamaki, during a media field tour they organised.
According to him, Sasakawa has trained farmers in Kano and Gombe states on effective utilisation of the aggregator facilities, as well as linking farmer associations with prospective buyers to ensure value for their produce, as well as ensure quality of what the farmers are selling during the pandemic period.
“We have trained women farmer groups, not only in modern farming techniques but also on value addition to their produce.
“We have encouraged them in the formation of associations, through which we successfully linked them up with buyers of their produce.
“They also produced along the value chain of a particular crop,’’ he revealed.
Similarly, the chairman of Bagwai Farmers Association, Malam Danladi Yahaya Bagwai, said farmers in the area were ready to make good use of the aggregator facilities provided for their agricultural sustainability by SG 2000, adding that they would ensure proper utilisation of the aggregator facilities.
According to him the COVID-19 pandemic has indeed negatively affected farming activities in various states of the federation, including Kano.
He added that without Sasakawa’s intervention, farmers in the area would have been out of business for long.
He further revealed that during the pandemic, farmers in the area were assisted with improved seed varieties, fertilizer and pesticides, which he said had helped them tremendously during the period.
The chairman also stated that the introduction of an aggregator facility, which serves as service providers to eliminate some of the marketing effort issues in the area, had helped farmers to store and access their produce with ease, as well as sell with high market value.
He said the aggregator facility had enabled farmers to collectively put their produce together in one centre and Sasakawa would connect them with mega companies that would buy the produce with value and in good market value.
“It has been on record that farmers in this area have been producing, but due to lack of proper marketing strategies, they usually ended up getting virtually small value of no value for their produce.
Sasakawa has established for us an effective aggregator centre, and it has equally provided us with the knowledge on how to effectively utilise this facility to increase our product’s market value.
No doubt our initial inability to put into practice a proper marketing strategy that will ensure effective gain in sale of our produce in the open market has negatively affected our productivity,” he said.
Similarly, according to the Sarkin Noma of Bagwai, Alhaji Bello Gurdo, in the irrigation site of Kano State, COVID-19 and its aftermath has made things harder for farmers.
He said the site, which is 1,562 hectares of land, had hundreds of farmers, both male and female working on it.
He added that the intervention received from SG 2000 had assisted the farmers to remain afloat during the period.

Blast heard in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia – report
An explosion was heard in the Saudi Arabia capital, Riyadh on Tuesday, according to a Reuters correspondent, but the cause of the explosion is yet to be ascertained.
Saudi-owned Al Arabiya TV cited local reports of an explosion and videos circulating on social media of a missile being intercepted over Riyadh.
On Saturday, the Saudi-led military coalition engaged in Yemen had said it had intercepted and destroyed an “enemy air target” launched towards Riyadh.
(Reuters/NAN)

Poverty of governance and illegal weapons in circulation
By  Adefolarin A. Olamilekan 
Governance in Nigeria in recent times especially since the return of civil rule in 1999 increasingly attracts significant attention.
The attraction is a sad tale of incessant governance failure to address the insecurity situation all over the country.
There is a sense in which the current situation makes a case for a wider understanding and recognition of governance, especially with millions of illegal weapon circulation in Nigeria.
The nation is not in a palatable one, but concerns over the safety of citizens.
There is an inherent cry for help by the people for a decent existence in terms of security of life and properties.
As of today, the menace of illegal weapons in circulation in the land is a huge threat to our economic sustenance, unity and co-existence.
It is in this that we discover the nexus between governance and millions of illegal weapons in circulation being a salient matter at this point of our national life.
The current drift and drain of governance in Nigeria in the last two decades have position many Nigerians to be conscientised by the practical experience of poverty of governance.
Therefore, it is also very imperative for us to point out what governance entails in its simple sense, as well as in the context of this piece.
The Oxford Advanced Learners Dictionary, Sixth Edition defines governance as an activity of controlling a country or the way in which a country or institution is controlled.
Thus, governance involves a process of control and controlling activity in a country, including arms and weapons in circulation.
Again, governance can be seen as the process whereby constituted official elements wield powers, authority and enact policies concerning public life and economic decision for overall social development.
However, this governance process takes the in-depth application of suitable and influential decision that impacts on the management and distribution of resources that includes revenues, man and materials.
Moreso, it involves the regulation, implementation and enforcement of desirable policies for target objectives, goals and aspiration through capacity.
Therefore, governance is simply controlling for desirable development result of which, safeguarding life and properties of citizens is key through exact regulations of arms and weapons is vital.
However, many reasons are being advanced to explain the continued inexorable poverty of governance in Nigeria.
For instance, poor institutional capacity leads to government failure, so also is the wider inequality, access to justice and fairness that create a burden of oppression and repression.
In addition to this, is the ever-rising provocation of nepotism and bigotry, ethnic sentiment that amputate national cohesion in decision making, coupled with negligence on the part of political representatives.
The recent alarm raised by the Chairman of the National Peace Committee (NPC) and former Military Head of State, General Abdulsallami Abubakar at a dialogue session of the committee with stakeholders at Transcorp Hilton in Abuja that over 6 million illegal weapons are currently traced to civilians, many of whom are jobless, hungry and angry.
“The number of small arms in circulation in Nigeria, in the hands of civilian non-state actors is estimated at 6,145,000, while the armed forces and law enforcement collectively account for 586,600 firearms”.
He went further to reveal the deplorable insecurity challenge in the country.
Informing the nation that 80,000 Nigerians have died in recent months with close to three million Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) spreading across the country all because of growing dire insecurity and illegal weapons circulation in the country.
He also added by saying that the security forces are not only overstretched but are under-funded, asserting that they can perform better with more sophisticated weapons, equipment and with accountable funding provided.
The concern raised by the former head of state and the chairman of National Peace Committee (NPC) stands a reason to take governance seriously over the carnage in the land.
Incidentally, this has shown that even those who exercise power and authority are living in fear.
It is in this context that they must pay heed to the cry of the people for help by taming the illegal weapon circulation.
Moreover, a recent report on arms proliferation in Africa tagged
“Small Arms, Mass Atrocities & Migration in Nigeria” highlighted that arms proliferation gave rise to armed groups and also led to the displacement of several Nigerians.
Conversely, the report stated that the proliferation of arms in Southern Nigeria has led to increasing violence in the region, such as communal clashes, cultism, kidnappings, ethnic and religious clashes, and militancy in the Niger Delta.
In the same vein, the report had it that in the Northern region, due to “existing state corruption, large tracts of ungoverned spaces, and mass unemployment has been responsible for rising criminality and violence in the region.”
The report opines that the aforementioned succeeded because of the proliferation of Small Arms and Light Weapons (SALW).
The situation calls to question, the feasibility of the National Task Force on Small Arms and Light Weapon.
Hence, we must chart the way forward, even though it looks blink and insurmountable.
We must rise to the occasion to tackle illegal weapon circulation in the country with the entire government structure confronting the menace headlong at federal, state and local government.
Equally, the National Task force on Small Arms and Light Weapon and office of the National Security Adviser to the President (ONSA) must re-double their efforts in the fight against illegal arms proliferation through preventive and repressive engagement.
Succinctly, appropriate people-centred governance programmes and security policies are needed to incorporate not just community policing but individuals and group policing networks of intelligence sharing.
Essentially, transparency, accountability and responsibility are the key watch of governance, without this, eliminating illegal weapons in circulation is tantamount to fruitless exercise.
Olamilekan  is a Political Economist & Development Researcher and can be reached via adefolarin77@gmail.com

Nigeria records highest start-ups among peers — Report
Nigeria has ranked highest in start-ups among other countries in Africa, a report by fDi Intelligence, a specialist division of the Financial Times, has stated.
An analysis of the report by Tolu Olasoji in the Leadership newspaper indicated that while Nigeria can boast of the largest number of start-ups in the Africa technology ecosystem, it lags in other important metrics.
The report compiled by fDi Intelligence in partnership with Briter Bridges, said investment in the continent’s start-up space is tiny in comparison to the global North.
For example, US start-ups raised $156.2bn in venture capital last year, per Pitchbook.
By comparison, African start-ups have raised just more than $2bn in the past two years, according to data.
Seventeen countries were selected for evaluation based on being home to several tech hubs, having more than 50 start-ups, and attracting investments greater than $500,000 between 2019 and 2020.
While South Africa ranked first place in the advancement of start-ups, Kenya came second.
But in terms of capacity, Nigeria had the highest volume of start-ups – over 750.
South Africa came second, but its start-ups raised $241m raised in 2020, compared to Nigeria’s
$64.1m.
The country was missing altogether in the top 10 for categories that are critical to helping a start-up thrive beyond its founding, including cost effectiveness and the level of countrywide tech talent.
It also only ranked sixth for business friendliness.
This highlights the frustrating state of conducting business in Nigeria by entrepreneurs, the analysis stated.

Father defiles underage daughters in Anambra
The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Anambra has presented a 48-year-old plumber, Thomas Igbo, for allegedly raping his three underage daughters.
The ages of the three defiled children are eight, three, and one and half years.
Mr David Bille, the commandant of the corps in the state, equally presented one Solomon Isaac for jumping into the NSCDC premises at night hours.
Bille told journalists on Thursday in Awka that some civil society personnel on May 25, reported that Igbo was defiling his three underage daughters.
“When we got the report, we arrested one Thomas Igbo, a plumber, residing in Enugwu-Ukwu town in Njikoka area of the state.
“Our medical personnel later conducted a test and uncovered that the children were being abused sexually.
“The suspect confessed to the crime and very soon, we will conclude the investigation and arraign the suspect”, Billie said.
The Confession
He said that he only had carnal knowledge of the eight-year-old daughter once and used his fingers to penetrate others at different times.
“I had sex once with my eight years old daughter.
Others, I only used my fingers to penetrate their private parts when I am bathing them,” he said.
Igbo, from Ikoloani Igboetiti area of Enugu State, claimed that he was under the influence of alcohol the day he slept with the daughter.
On the case of 28-year old Solomon Isaac, Billie said he was arrested for jumping in the premises of NSCDC state headquarters, Awka on May 24.
But Isaac, a native of Ejuleala Ofu Local Government Area of Kogi, claimed he was being pursued by cultists about 8 p.m. on the day he was arrested, saying “I jumped into the place for safety”.
Mrs Laura Ugwuanyi, the state Coordinator of the National Human Right Commission, who was at the NSCDC office during the presentation of the suspects, expressed worry over the upsurge in rape cases in the state in recent times.
She advised residents to always report such ills whenever they got to know about them as a way of fighting the menace.
(NAN)

HealthPlus, Canadian firm partner on telemedicine
Outpost Health, a Canadian digital health provider, has partnered with HealthPlus Limited to deliver its award-winning telemedicine platform in Nigeria.
According to a statement by the management of HelathPlus, the partners held a meeting on the pact where Outpost Co-founders Dr. Didi Emokpare and Dr. Jude Emokpare spoke about the platform.
The Outpost platform connects providers, patients, payors, pharmacies, labs and health facilities globally and serves to provide seamless access and enhanced quality of care to all.
They said there are challenges of healthcare access and industry fragmentation in Nigeria and so his platform seeks partners with the highest ethical standards and a commitment to providing innovative quality healthcare, such as HealthPlus.”
HealthPlus on its part said it is delighted to announce the launch of our newest innovation, the digitization of our pharmacy and retail services powered through a partnership with Outpost Healthcare.
It noted that through the Outpost app, customers will be able to, consult a specialist doctor via a virtual visit, digitally fulfil a prescription, maintain health records, among others.
Commenting, Chief Transformation Officer of HealthPlus, Chidi Okoro, said: “We are excited to continue in our quest to provide the Nigerian consumers with high-quality, lifesaving, affordable products, and services.
“We will continue to make a meaningful and lasting impact by contributing our quota to the achievement of universal healthcare coverage and to increasing life expectancy for all Nigerians.”

Inside Buni-led committee’s tortuous journey of 9 months
The emergence of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordunary Convention Planning Committee on June 25, 2020 gave a huge relief to party members after a period of intense crisis in the party.
This was sequel to the dissolution of the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) over an alleged abuse of office.
Pundits say the party under Oshiomhole was gradually going into extinction following the crisis that engulfed the system.
The Buni-led caretaker committee was mandated by the National Executive Committee (NEC), which is the second highest decision-making organ of the party, to reconcile all aggrieved members, embark on membership drive and organise a national convention within six months.
But the committee’s timeline was later extended by the NEC on December 8, 2020 by another six months to enable it accomplish its mandate.
The committee, on assumption of office, commenced the process of reconciliation nationwide and recorded significant milestones in the process.
On August 23, 2020, the Buni-led committee summoned the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi and the Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, to the party’s national secretariat in Abuja, where they were reconciled and asked to work together for the party.
Similarly, the committee received some Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) bigwigs who jumped ship into the APC following moves by the ruling party to whittle down the structures of opposition parties ahead of the 2023 general elections.
The latest defection was recorded on Thursday when Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State dumped the PDP for the ruling party.
Ayade’s defection came six months after his counterpart in Ebonyi, Dave Umahi, joined the APC.
Similarly, the APC has, within the period, harvested other PDP bigwigs, including a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara; former national chairman of the PDP, Chief Barnabas Gemade; a PDP senator representing Adamawa North, Elisha Abbo.
Chief Jimoh Ibrahim; a former Head of Service of the Federation, Mr Danladi Kifasi; Senator Isa Hamma Misau; Alhaji Salisu Takai; senators, members of the House of Representatives; members of state Houses of Assembly and many others also pitched tent with the ruling party.
Most of the defectors attributed their decision to pitch tent with the APC to an alleged poor handling of issues and injustice in the PDP, a claim that was refuted by the top echelon of the opposition party.
Unveiling his scorecard recently, Buni said the committee had resolved some “life-threatening challenges” in 11 of its state chapters, adding that reconciliation effort was still ongoing in the party.
Daily Trust
Saturday reports that the APC had not renewed its membership register since the initial registration exercise of 2014 despite the surge in its membership.
Sequel to this, the caretaker committee, during a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari in Aso Villa recently, got his nod to embark on nationwide membership registration and revalidation exercise which ended on March 31, 2021.
The Buni-led committee had pushed for the establishment of a tripartite committee to be saddled with the responsibility of enhancing communication and relationship between the executive, legislature and the ruling APC, with a view to ensuring smooth and effective service delivery to Niigerians.
President Buhari appointed Vice President Yemi Osinbajo as the chairman of the tripartite committee.
The president had said an amicable resolution of conflicts in the party through regular consultations would create more understanding.
The Buni-led committee had also led the party to victory in the Ondo State governorship election.
Our reporter also learnt that the APC was amending its constitution to bring sanity and discipline among card-carrying members.
A source in the party said the constitution was being amended to include, among other things, a clause that would compel its elected and appointed officers to meet with people at the grassroots, at least twice a year.
Speaking at the party’s secretariat in Abuja a few months ago, Buni said, “Apart from the issue of membership registration, there are the outstanding issues of constitutional amendment.
“This is a matter that is as important as reconstitution of leadership, if not more important.
I believe our capacity to strengthen our rules through constitutional amendment would help us to put all the problems that led to the crisis that brought us to this point behind us.
I will, therefore, invite you to take all the necessary steps to forward recommendations that will enable us to strengthen our rules.”
Hurdles
Tongues are wagging over the possibility of the caretaker committee to organise an elective national convention not later than June this year.
There are twists and turns, dark clouds and anxiety as pundits are arguing that the much-touted June convention date is shaky and may hit the rocks.
Impeccable sources confided in our reporter yesterday that the APC top echelon was still battling to unite members, bury internal crisis in state chapters, reach key decisions on the issue of zoning, organise ward, local government, state and zonal congresses as a prelude to the convention.
Daily Trust
Saturday reports that the caretaker committee has not yet constituted convention sub-committees that would help in planning and executing various tasks ahead of the convention.
There is an uproar over alleged plots by some party bigwigs to extend the timeline allotted to the Buni committee and shift the party’s national convention beyond June.
There are concerns that barely 40 days to the expiration of the interim committee’s timeline, it is not yet ready to organise the national convention and congresses to elect a new crop of leaders at various levels.
The committee also has a herculean task of putting things in proper shape and organising congresses, where new ward, local government, state and zonal executives would emerge.
This is sequel to the dissolution of the party’s structures from ward to zonal levels at the NEC meeting of December 8, 2020, which was held at the Presidential Villa in Abuja.
But a statement by the secretary of the caretaker committee, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe few days ago in Abuja, indicated that the party was not planning to release its schedule of activities for congresses and convention any time soon.
However, there were reports in some quarters that the committee would release the timetable soon.
Reacting, Akpanudoedehe said, “The CECPC is focused and is delivering its mandate to recover, rebuild and reposition the APC, as well as achieve peace-building, true reconciliation and to give a sense of belonging to every member of the party.
“On Monday, May 17, 2021, the APC national secretariat resumed from Sallah break and will also resume work on several ongoing and important party activities.
As usual, we will promptly communicate the outcomes of these activities through official channels when available.
“We have never lied on our activities, and we simply have no reason to.
The consultative party leadership style instituted by Governor Mai Mala Buni as chairman of the CECPC has institutionalised the APC as a party of processes and internal democracy.”
But some party chieftains are worried that the party would hit the rocks if the convention is not held in June, citing legal issues.
There is also anxiety in the APC as controversy rages among top party leaders over which zone should produce the party’s 2023 presidential candidate.
There are hints that the convention is being delayed for various issues, including zoning, lingering crisis in some state chapters, fear that some members might pull out if the outcome of the convention does not favour their interests.
Others say the APC is buying time to wait for the PDP to decide on zoning of its 2023 presidential ticket and chairmanship before acting.
Daily Trust
Saturday reports that the PDP national convention is expected to hold in December, 2021 when the tenure of the Prince Uche Secondus-led NWC would elapse.
Discussions around alleged lack of reward system in the APC is equally generating tension and gaining momentum by the day.
Party stalwarts are grumbling over the issue and asking the national leadership of the party not to allow new entrants to hijack the system but recognise and reward old members who contributed to the growth of the party.
However, it is left to be seen whether the Buni committee would tackle all the challenges before June and organise a crisis-free national convention or get an extension of its timeline for the third time.

Nigeria loses N3.7tr to poor cold chain logistics
Nigeria is estimated to be losing N3.7 trillion annually due to wastage arising from improper storage of foods.
Chairman, Governing Council, Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology (NITT), Mr. John Onojeharho disclosed this while speaking at the 8th Nigeria Annual Transport Lecture held in Lagos at the weekend.
He said, “Nigeria is ranked one percent in terms of cold chain management.
The market is huge and if properly tapped, we can save $9 billion annually by avoiding food wastage through proper storage”.
Onojeharho said if the 15 million metric tonnes of perishable goods wasted annually were well preserved, inflation would drop and there would be drastic improvement in the economy.
He added that Nigeria ranks 110 out of 160 countries globally in the performance index of logistics.
The transport expert attributed poor cold chain logistics to lack of good road infrastructure, continuity of the cold supply chain, high capital investment, power supply amongst others.
Minister of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi who was represented by the Executive Director in the ministry, Mr Agbaji Francis, said there are efforts by the government to improve the transport sector.
He said in the rail subsector, 859 kilometres of standard gauge rail lines have been constructed and commissioned for commercial use in the last five years.

Air Peace gifts passengers cards, others
To mark the Eid-el-Fitri celebrations, Air Peace is delighting its customers with numerous gifts in-flight.
The Eid campaign is intended to put smiles on the faces of the customers for choosing Air Peace.
The campaign entails placement of gift cards in random seat pockets and during the flight, passengers are told to check the seat pockets in front of them to know if they have won a gift or not.
The activities started on Wednesday, May 12 and will run through the week.
Passengers stand a chance to win gifts such as thermo water-flask, food flasks, diaries, umbrellas, notebook bottles, remote organisers and free Health Maintenance Organisation (HMO) cards.
Spokesperson of Air Peace, Stanley Olisa, reiterated the airline’s commitment to offering unparalleled flight experience while also expressing gratitude to all customers for their continued patronage.
He added that this is an extension of the airline’s Random Acts of Love campaign.
The airline initiated the campaign during Easter last month, to appreciate its teeming customers for their loyalty.

Nigeria has low dairy consumption level — Report
Nigeria has a low dairy consumption level at 15 to 20 litres per capita in spite of its health benefits with citizens opting for other staple food, a report by the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations (UN) stated.
CHI Limited, a dairy manufacturing firm in Nigeria quoted the report in a statement yesterday.
It said: “This is partly attributable to low purchasing power of the average Nigerian household which rank milk and dairy products as non-essential luxuries and prioritise other staple foods such as rice, beans and yam.”
Towards improving the situation, CHI said it would mark its first Hollandia Dairy Day next Tuesday to drive national discourse on the health and nutrition benefits of dairy consumption.
The day which will be marked through a conference with the theme: “Dairy Nourishment to Support Healthy Living”, is the first of such by a single company.
Chi said the physical and hybrid conference would feature presentations, interviews and panel discussions from health experts and nutritionists as they provided insights and shared perspectives to guide informed decisions about dairy consumption as part of a daily balanced diet.
The company  stated that, “By provoking the conversations and stimulating public action/intervention, Hollandia aims to drive consciousness for dairy consumption and its importance to achieving optimum health, and to get many more Nigerians drinking, using and consuming dairy products.
“Dairy foods such as milk and yoghurt contain essential nutrients, including Vitamins A and D, Zinc and Protein which support immune function, especially as Nigeria and other countries battle the COVID-19 pandemic.

2023 polls:  PDP asks INEC to transmit results electronically
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct and transmit results of the 2023 general elections electronically.
The party’s position is predicated on INEC’s announcement of its readiness to conduct online (electronic) registration of voters for future elections in the country.
The party, in a statement on Tuesday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said since INEC is now in the position to deploy technology to conduct online registration of voters, which entails electronic transmission of voters’ data to its central server, the commission can also conduct an electronic transmission of results directly from the polling units to its central server.
“Our party calls the attention of the commission to the fact that it no longer has any excuse not to employ the direct transmission of results from polling units, which will ensure credible elections by eliminating manipulations, alterations, switching and disappearance of election results during manual collation processes.
“The PDP insists that if INEC can use the electronic platform for registration of voters, it could as well deploy the same technology for electronic transmission of results in future elections including the 2023 general elections.
“Our party, however, urges INEC to ensure that the online registration of voters is credible, transparent and not open to the manipulations of desperate politicians.
“The PDP also calls on the APC leadership in the National Assembly to know that it has no further pretext to continue to sit on the Electoral Act 
Amendment bill and frustrate genuine efforts to ensure credible, free and fair elections in our country,” the PDP said.

Kidnappers kill Minor after collecting N5m naira ransom from parents in Kaduna
A boy kidnapped from his parents’ home in a Kaduna suburb was found dead, seven days after he was taken and N5 million ransom paid for his release.
Muhammad Kabir, the victim, who was taken from Badarawa suburb of Kaduna North local government area, is believed to have been killed by his kidnappers.
His body was found in drainage in Kano after a weeklong search.
One of the arrested suspects leading the police to the drainage where the body was found
Sources in the area believe a neighbour connived with another resident, an ex-military personnel, to kidnap the boy.
Police have arrested three people, including the said neighbour, in connection with the kidnap and murder of Kabir.
Sources in the community also told Daily Trust that immediately the boy was declared missing,  a search for him was done for days before a call came in from the kidnappers demanding N50m, and then later reduced the amount to N35m before finally agreeing to N5m.
Abdulrahman Kabir Magayaki, a brother to the victim, told Daily Trust that the late Kabir was taken away from their house to Zaria from there to Kano State where his body was retrieved after the ransom was paid.
“One of the suspects that took the boy away was our neighbour while the ex-military personnel was also a resident in the community.
They took him to Zaria from there to Kano where his body was retrieved inside drainage after they collected 5 million naira ransom,” he said.
He said the victim’s body was brought back to Kaduna and buried according to Islamic rites on Saturday.
Another resident said the victim must have been killed after he recognised the faces of his abductors since they are all living in the area.
Details of how the suspects were apprehended remain sketchy but they led the police to where the body was dumped.
Kaduna State Police Command Spokesman ASP Mohammed Jalige who confirmed the incident said the three suspects confessed to the crime but said he cannot comment on the military background of one of the suspects until investigation is concluded.

Nadal, Djokovic eye history as Roland Garros embraces quiet night in
Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic will set their sights on more Grand Slam history at Roland Garros as the French Open embraces a new and eerily empty era of nighttime tennis.
The 14th title in Paris for Nadal would take him to a record-setting 21st major, surpassing the mark he shares with Roger Federer who has already written off his hopes of adding to his lone success in the French capital back in 2009.
Djokovic, the champion in 2016, can move to 19 Grand Slam titles with victory.
That would make the world number one the first man in over half a century to win all four majors on multiple occasions.
Nadal arrives in Paris buoyed by having defeated Djokovic in the Rome Masters
final in what was the pair’s 57th meeting.
It was Nadal’s 10th title in the Italian capital.
Not that he was reading too much into the statistics as far as Roland Garros is concerned.
“I think I can work on a couple of things that I can do a little bit better,” he insisted.
“I just need to keep going.
I know what I need to work on
and I’m going to do it.
Work, relax mentally, and work the right way.”
At last year’s delayed Roland Garros, Nadal swept past Djokovic in straight sets in the final.
It was Nadal’s 100th win at the tournament against just two losses since his 2005 title-winning debut.
Giving Djokovic hope, however, is the knowledge that he was responsible for one of those losses, in the 2015 quarter-finals.
He is also a four-time runner-up although three of those defeats in the championship match came against the Spaniard.

2022 gov’ship: Fayose endorses Ekiti PDP chair
A former governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, has anointed Bisi Kolawole, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chairman in the state as his preferred candidate for the 2022 governorship election in the state.
Kolawole, a former house of assembly member, was officially presented to Fayose’s supporters across the 177 wards to prepare a solid ground for his emergence in the primary.
Fayose described Kolawole as a bridge-builder, one who could bring in a better future for Ekiti and the party, adding that he was “our collective project.”

Joy and sadness at Liverpool
Liverpool ended the season on a high note having qualified for the Champions League with a third place finish.
Regrettably the season also ended on a sad note with Liverpool’s excellent Georginio Wijnaldum departing for Barcelona.
I am told he has agreed a two-year deal.
He will be difficult to replace and has been Liverpool’s best player this year.
Gini has played in all 38 Premier League matches for the Reds and his reliability reminds me of Steven Gerrard who was also a hard act to follow.
He said a few days ago, “I’m fighting against tears right now.
The people in Liverpool have shown me love during my five years here.
I will miss them.
Jurgen Klopp knows he has to go into the transfer market and is currently working with his scouts and backroom team to identify who would be good enough to slot into the team.
Pep’s favourite celebratory moment 
Following their success at winning the Premier League title and finishing off with a 5-0 victory against Everton, Manchester City players, staff and the manager went into full party mode.
Alcohol flowed, Pep Guardiola could be seen smoking a celebratory cigar and singing along to super band Oasis.
Pep’s favourite moment of the evening?
It was 11pm and 15 pizzas were delivered from a local takeaway.
And Pep was allowed first choice of his favourite topping!
Arsenal must decide about Willock
Discussions are already taking place behind the scenes at Arsenal regarding the future of Joe Willock.
The 21 year-old has progressed superbly this season, both physically and mentally, whilst on loan to Newcastle and he equalled club legend Alan Shearer’s record of seven goals in seven games.
Some would say it has been a one man show by Willock which propelled Newcastle up the league from a perilous position close to relegation.
Mikel Arteta is trying to decide whether to extend Joe’s loan period or bring him back to the Emirates where the danger is that he could spend most his time on the bench which could destroy his new found confidence.
Gareth still won’t reveal his plans
This week I tried to learn for you Gareth Bale’s intentions for next season
but he is playing his cards very close to his chest.
No matter how much I tried, Gareth would only say he has made up his mind what is happening now
his loan period from Real Madrid to Spurs has ended but if he let his secret out it would cause chaos.
He just kept smiling.
Gareth then flew back to Spain by private jet and joined his family who have remained at home in Madrid during his time in the UK.
Spurs do not have a loan extension option or one to buy him outright and therefore Chairman Daniel Levy would have to renegotiate a new deal with Real Madrid if he wants Gareth for next season which is his final contracted year to the Spanish side.
Rumours about Spurs head coach
I am receiving rumours from Tottenham that there has already been contact with Roberto Martinez regarding the managerial role.
Martinez is currently leading Belgium in the Euros but is keen to return to club management.
Spurs have publicly said they are not interested in Martinez however the rumours I am picking up are strong.
Moyes addresses West Ham fans
I was amused by West Ham’s
manager David Moyes response to their successful bid for European football next season.
There were 10,000 fans in the London Stadium and after West Ham beat Southampton 3-0
he addressed them by saying, “Make sure you are all vaccinated and get your passports out because we’re going to Europe!”
West Ham are about to reward Moyes with a new three-year contract.
Edinson explains his motivation  
Edinson Cavani has been talking about his role at Manchester United.
Having signed a new one year extension to his contract he explained his motivation at being the senior player behind the scenes at Old Trafford.
He said this week, “I’ve always been a student of football.
Throughout my whole career, I’ve tried to learn and absorb positive things that could make me a better player and a better team-mate
and I try to show that with the team.
Nowadays, I’m the oldest player, the elder statesman in the team and that is a great motivation for me.
It pushes me during training sessions, it pushes me when I go out and play a match and compete.
So I try and enjoy it and work hard for my team
and I have to set an example.
I think that you set an example with your behaviour, how you compete, doing your best for your team, always being there to train and trying to be the best player in training sessions.”
Is Werner good enough to play for Chelsea?
Chelsea striker Timo Werner has run out of chances and
Blues coach Thomas Tuchel is looking around Europe for new talent capable of scoring regularly.
Werner is Chelsea’s joint leading scorer with 12 goals and 14 assists this season but only six of these have come in the Premier League and the German has missed a large number of clear-cut chances.
Chelsea’s other main striker Tammy Abraham is out of favour and is looking to leave which leaves Tuchel with the task of finding a replacement.
Whether or not Werner is sold is yet to be decided however Romelu Lukaku is having an excellent season at Inter Milan with 23 goals and  Erling Haaland has scored a goal every 93 minutes with a total of 39 goals in 40 games for Dortmund.
Both are on Chelsea’s radar.
The Blues clearly need to find a new Didier Drogba and owner Roman Abramovich has promised the funds to make it happen.
36 year-old Fernandinho set to stay at City
Despite his 36 years, Fernandinho remains a player
Pep Guardiola wants in his squad.
The midfielder has played 34 times this season, scored one goal and made two assists.
His main quality is being able to dominate the centre of the pitch and foresee what opponents are going to do and stop them.
Fernandinho joined City in 2013 from Shakhtar Donetsk and Pep has kept him at the heart of this team since he joined in 2016.
He was also handed the club captain’s badge following David Silva’s departure.
In recognition of his leadership and importance Manchester City have extended his contract for another year.
The pressure on Guardiola to find another holding midfielder has now eased but it is City’s intention to look for a permanent replacement as Fernandinho approaches retirement.
Amazing fact about Leicester…  
I was speaking with Leicester this week and my contacts pointed out an amazing fact.
Leicester have just missed out on a top four Champions League qualification place for next season and yet they spent 242 days in the top four of the Premier League table whereas qualifiers Manchester United were in the top four for only 155 days, Manchester City 131 days,
Liverpool 140 days and Chelsea only 103 days.
Leicester are a fantastic family club with genuinely nice people working there
and I am sorry they have, once again, missed out on the top prize.

Olusegun Ajuwon: It’s wrong for sports ministries to concentrate only on football
The Chairman of Aso Table Tennis Club, Dr. Olusegun Ajuwon has said too much attention being paid to football by sports ministries and administrators
is detrimental to the existence of other games.
Speaking recently in Abuja, the table tennis enthusiast reiterated the need for corporate organisations and individuals to sponsor more table tennis tournaments.
Ajuwon also spoke on efforts his club is making to develop the game in the FCT and beyond.
You’ve been so committed to the game of table tennis.
Where do you draw your inspiration?
I can’t tell exactly what the motivation is all about.
All I can say is that I like the game.
I like the game of table tennis.
It is a game that is easy to play.
What I mean by this is that you don’t need costly gadgets to play table tennis.
I started playing table tennis in my school hostel.
The school built concrete slabs for us to iron clubs.
But that became our first table tennis board.
We would put two tins of peak milk and a stick to make a net.
We would then use kpako (wood) or cardboard to produce bats with which we played the game.
Balls were always available for us to play.
I think that is where I derived my inspiration for the game of table tennis.
I had the opportunity to play golf
but I think it is for rich people.
So I settled for table tennis due to its simplicity and effectiveness in terms of exercise.
Table tennis is one of the safest games one can play.
Would you say enough effort is being made by the appropriate authorities to develop the game of table tennis in Nigeria?
I am not a fan of Big Brother Nigeria, BBN, but I can see that in their last edition, they promoted table tennis.
Anytime they were free they played table tennis.
It is wrong for the ministry of sports at both the federal and state level to concentrate only on football.
I think it is wrong because it is not everybody who can play at the highest level.
But table tennis can keep so many people engaged.
Paying too much attention to football is wrong but it has become a tradition.
And where we copied football from, there is so much pool betting in Europe, especially in the UK.
There is so much betting around the game that is why it is so popular.
Here in Nigeria, we are so blessed with talented youths in table tennis
so we should be able to domesticate it.
It is easy to start.
And we can engage so many people at any time.
This is my appeal.
Would you say there are enough tournaments to keep the players busy?
We should pay more attention to hosting more competitions at regular intervals.
It doesn’t have to be so big like bringing together all the states like Aso Table Tennis Club is doing.
It can be local but let it be a constant thing like every month or every two months, there is a competition.
Among other benefits, this will help keep the kids away from social vices.
How much is Aso Table Tennis club contributing to the growth of the sport in the FCT?
Before we involved other states, this competition was exclusively for the FCT.
After some time, we began to involve neighbouring states.
At the moment, what we do is to get a coach in the FCT to go round the secondary school to publicise this competition.
Ajoke Ojomo and three of her mates graduated from a secondary school here in the FCT.
They were discovered through this tournament.
So the Aso table tennis championship is for the FCT and Abuja people should take full advantage of it.
The tournament is not going to leave Abuja.
Are there any concrete plans to ensure that this tournament is held annually?
What I know for sure is that it will continue to hold because we are getting more and more people who are interested and have the means to support us.
They are willing to give.
It may also interest you to know that what we use in hosting this competition, big as it may sound, is not so much.
Our budget is below N5m.
And I am sure one year is enough to raise N5m.
So there is every assurance that the Aso table tennis championship will continue to hold every year.
At the moment, how many corporate organisations are sponsoring Aso table tennis tournament?
For the 2021 edition, we got a big sponsor but we are not mentioning his name.
Hopefully, we would get more sponsors so that we wouldn’t have to worry when the competition is near.
We are also hoping that if the economy improves, we would bring on board more corporate sponsors.
Three years ago, we were hopeful but the economy has been bad so anywhere we go, they say
well you know what is happening.
However, we hope to get corporate sponsorship that will be constant.
How much support is Aso table tennis and the game in general enjoying from the FCT Sports Council?
I think they can do a little better because the players that went to the recently concluded National Sports Festival in Benin City didn’t have enough support from the FCT Sports Council.
I think we can do better.
There are so many talented players in the FCT waiting to be discovered and nurtured.

Police arrest 4 over murder of groom-to-be in Kwara
Police in Kwara have arrested four people suspected to be involved in the killing of Olokose Ojo, a staff of University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital, six days before his wedding.
Ojo, in his early 30s, worked in the National Health Insurance Scheme unit of the hospital.
It is believed the attack was orchestrated by the kingpin of the gang and the deceased next-door neighbour named as Kazeem Mohammed who lured him to a bush in Patigi on the guise of helping him purchase three cattle to be used for the event at the rate of N350,000.
He was however murdered and his body dismembered by the gang after withdrawing over N1.2m from his account with his ATM and demanding N12 million ransom from his wife-to-be, Ilori Oluwakemi.
His body was exhumed by the police and taken to the UITH mortuary for autopsy.
The police gave the names of the other three suspects as Mohammed Chatta, Jimoh Abdulateef and Madi Jeremiah all of whom are now in custody adding that they will be charged to court once judiciary workers call off their strike.
Speaking on the development, Police PPRO, Ajayi Okasanmi, said the suspects confessed in their statements that the victim was lured into the remote part of Patigi where he was told the cattle he paid for were tethered but was shot on approaching the spot.
The deceased was said to have been buried in a shallow grave inside the bush and his head and arm severed to be used for alleged money ritual.

Food, beverage companies fast collapsing — TUC
The Trade Union Congress (TUC) has decried the negative effects of federal government policies and the COVID-19 pandemic on the food, beverage and tobacco sector, saying the sector has suffered several factory closures and redundancies.
TUC President, Quadri Olaleye, who doubles as the outgoing President of the Food Beverage and Tobacco Senior Staff Association (FOBTOB), stated this in Abuja during the 14th National Delegates Conference of the association.
“It is no news that the COVID-19 pandemic spotlighted the food, beverage and tobacco industry as an engine room for boosting the Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
The hardworking members of the Association defied all odds to ensure that food items were made available to Nigerians during the lockdown.
“It was very unfortunate that despite the vantage position of this industry to our economical sustenance, it has not received 10 percent of the attention given to other sectors of the economy.
The production cost has gone up but nothing has been done in terms of financial support and tax relief by the government to cushion the effects of this.
“Rather, we are subjected to different bans ranging from accessibility of forex to import of raw materials to forced backward integration.
We are not opposed to backward integration in any form but its implementation was ill-timed as it has led to massive redundancy in our industry,” Olaleye said.
He explained that companies under FOBTOB had sacked not less than 1,478 workers between 2015 and 2021, which had diminished Nigeria’s revenue.
He further said, “It is our hope that the government would wake up from the snail speed approach to governance since governance is a serious business for serious-minded people.
The government must urgently start addressing the issue of the growing unemployment rate, insecurity, and the general infrastructural decay in our nation.”

Ekiti police nab 2 serial burglars
The Ekiti State Police Command Rapid Response Squad (RRS) has arrested two persons, Abbar Wasiri and Aribisala Timileyin, for burglary along Adebayo area of the state capital.
The suspects stole N210,000 and other valuables, when they burgled three different houses on Monday, at about 1:30 am.
The police said on May 9, 2021, at about 1:30pm, one Barrister Ayo Oguntuase, in Ado-Ekiti, came to the RRS office, Ado-Ekiti, and reported that some unknown persons burgled his office and two other houses at night in Adebayo Area, Ado-Ekiti, on May 8, and made away with N210,000 cash, two sets of computer system and many other items.
The police command said upon the receipt of the information, the RRS operatives immediately moved into action and arrested the two suspects based on intelligence gathered.
The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Sunday Abutu, said during interrogation, the two suspects confessed to the crime and led operatives to their houses where items such as 265 different types of children and adult clothes, 14 pairs of children and adult canvas shoes, two complete sets of computers, one ceiling fan, and two law report books belonging to different complainants were recovered.
Abutu added that a further investigation revealed that one of the suspects, Abbar Wasiri, is one of the security guards employed to guard one of the places burgled.
According to the PPRO, investigation is ongoing and when concluded, the suspects shall be charged to court.
Meanwhile, the Ekiti State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Tunde Mobayo, has called on everyone in the state to be security-conscious and promptly report any strange and suspicious persons found in their environs to the police.

Five matches that won Atletico Madrid La Liga title
Atletico Madrid won the La Liga for the second time in eight years on Sunday as a 2-1 victory over Real Valladolid crowned them Spanish champions.
Here are five matches that secured Atletico
the title:
Atletico Madrid 1-0 Barcelona, November 21
Yannick Carrasco scored the winner as Atletico registered their first La Liga win over Barcelona in more than a decade and stretched their unbeaten run to 24 matches.
It would be this result that eventually gave Atletico a better head-to-head record over Barca, who were left 10th in the table and without the injured Gerard Pique for three months.
Elche 0-1 Atletico Madrid, May 1
Atletico were inches away from surrendering victory and their lead at the top of the table to Real Madrid as Elche’s
Fidel Chaves missed a dramatic 91st-minute penalty.
Fidel’s shot struck the post as Atletico held on for a 1-0 win that kept them two points ahead of Real Madrid and also in front of Barcelona going into a crunch meeting at Camp Nou.
Barcelona 0-0 Atletico Madrid, May 8
Barcelona had the chance to shift the dynamic of the title race on their home turf but Atletico dominated the first half and Barca never did quite enough in the second.
The stalemate ended up being an even better result for Atletico after Real Madrid were held by Sevilla a day later, Atleti’s two-point lead preserved at the end of what many had circled as a pivotal weekend.
Atletico Madrid 2-1 Osasuna, May 16
With nine minutes left, Atletico trailed Osasuna 1-0 at the Wanda Metropolitano and Real Madrid
were going top of La Liga, the title in their hands, with a win against Athletic Bilbao.
But Atletico pulled off an incredible turnaround, Renan Lodi equalising in the 82nd minute and Suarez scoring the winner in the 88th, with hundreds of fans celebrating outside in the stadium car park.
The victory kept Atleti top and left them one more win away.
Real Valladolid 1-2 Atletico Madrid, May 22 Atletico knew victory would win them the title regardless of how Real Madrid fared against Villarreal
but they did it the hard way, coming from behind after Valladolid took a shock lead through Oscar Plano.
But Angel Correa equalised and then Suarez scored the winner, a nervy title race decided by a nail-biting victory.
(AFP)

Wanted Abia major drug supplier arrested with 100kg cocaine, cannabis
The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested Chibuike Apolos, a notorious major supplier of illicit drugs in Abia State, during an early morning raid on his hideout at Mbawsi in Isialangwa North area of the state.
Spokesman of the agency, Femi Babafemi, said on Wednesday in Abuja that Apolos has been on the wanted list of the Abia State Command of the NDLEA since February following the arrest of one Chima Ukeleonu, the suspect behind the video that went viral in January 2021, showing a young man hawking illicit drugs on the street.
According to him, it was due to the development that the 38-year-old Apolos was put on the wanted list.
“Following his arrest in the early hours of Wednesday, the Abia State government has already marked his house which serves as his hideout for demolition,” Babafemi said.
He also quoted the Commander Abia State Command of the NDLEA, Bamidele Akingbade, as saying that “The command has been on his trail since February this year.
“Fortunately, we got a tip-off that he just received some quantities of cannabis from Edo State.
“Notwithstanding the tense security situation in the South East, especially Abia State, the command still embarked on the operation which culminated in the arrest of one Chibuike Apolos with 10 bags of cannabis weighing 100kg, 1.6 grammes of cocaine, one gramme of heroin and five grammes of methamphetamine.”
In a similar development, the Taraba State Command of the Agency has arrested 61-year-old Lawan Gambo Umar for trafficking 58.50kg of Cannabis Sativa.
According to the state Commander of NDLEA, Suleiman Ajadi, “The suspect was taking the skunk concealed inside sacks of beans chaff used to feed animals to Fune in Yobe State when our men intercepted him.”

Rep lauds NDLEA over illicit drugs seizures
The member representing Ado/Ogbadibo/Okpokwu Federal Constituency, Dr Francis Ottah Agbo, has commended the chairman of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, Brig-Gen.
Mohammed Buba Marwa (rtd) for his renewed anti-drugs fight which has led to large scale seizures across the country.
The lawmaker, who is also the Chairman of the Narcotic Drugs Committee, particularly praised Marwa for sanitizing the health sector by intercepting large quantities of narcotic and substandard drugs across the country.
The lawmaker, in a statement by his Media Aide, Andrew Agbese, on Wednesday, said the NDLEA boss had in less than six months of assuming office, succeeded in getting the agency back on track by busting many drug rings and syndicates, as well as seizing and destroying large quantities of illicit drugs.
Agbo, who is also the spokesman of the Minority Caucus, said NDLEA, under the leadership of the former Military Administrator of Lagos State, is reminiscent of the days of Prof Dora Akunyili in NAFDAC when fake, expired drugs and substandard food brands were reduced to the admiration of all and sundry.
“I have been an advocate of optimum, staffing, equipping and funding the NDLEA to achieve its statutory mandate due to the menace of substance abuse and drug addiction in the country.
“I have said several times that the NDLEA needs all the support to carry out its mandate
but I’m surprised that even with the little on the ground, the agency, under the able leadership of Gen. Buba Marwa, has been able to achieve a lot by taking the fight to the criminals and this has given me the confidence as chairman of the Narcotic Drugs Committee to further push for the necessary incentives for the agency to function at an optimal level.
“It is very clear that Marwa is the new Sheriff in town and he has proved this by clearing the doubt of drug barons, syndicates and traffickers”, he said.
Daily Trust reports that the agency had in recent times made large scale seizures and arrested suspects across the country.

Bayelsa vigilantes arrest 4 for buying stolen phones
Bayelsa Vigilante Security Service has nabbed a phone repairer and three others for allegedly buying phones snatched at gunpoint in the state.
The state government-owned security outfit, led by its chairman, Doubiye Alagba, over the weekend, arrested four suspects, including a popular phone repairer, for buying a phone that was allegedly stolen at gunpoint in Yenagoa.
It was gathered that men of the vigilante were acting on a tip-off that one Mr. Lawrence Oworodo was robbed of his phone and other belongings at gunpoint, when they traced the mobile phone to one Audu John in Biogbolo axis of the state capital.
Investigation by the security body also led to the arrest of three other suspects who are said to be involved in buying stolen phones in the state.
Alagba, in a statement made available to newsmen in Yenagoa, gave the names of the arrested suspects as Audu John, Dominic Diezibe, James Believe and David Emmanuel.
“We picked interest in this case because the owner of the phone was robbed at gunpoint.
One of the challenges we face in the streets of Yenagoa today is pocket crime like this.
“I call it a pocket crime because these criminals go about with these locally made pistols to steal valuables from innocent citizens who go about their normal daily hustles.
“These four suspects were arrested through the help of a phone tracking device.
The phone was tracked to one Audu John, who resides at Biogbolo, Yenagoa, who led us to arrest other suspects including a popular phone repairer in Amarata, Mr. David Emmanuel.”
Police spokesman in Bayelsa State SP Asinim Butswat confirmed the arrest, saying they are in police custody and investigation was on.

Ministry, CODE to track N6bn Kaduna projects
The Ministry of Budget and National Planning will partner with ‘Follow The Money’ of the Connected Development (CODE) to track constituency projects in Kaduna valued at N6 billion in the 2020 and 2021 budgets.
The Minister of Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Agba, who is also co-chair of the Open Government Partnership (OGP), said this while receiving ‘Follow The Money’ activists in his office recently.
He said “The Eye Mark App”, a secured web and mobile-based application will be launched by the ministry to enable citizens to update information about community projects and their status.
CODE’s
Programmes Associate, Mr Kingsley Agu, who led the team said CODE in collaboration with the MacArthur Foundation was setting the pace to initiate governance and budgeting reforms through a campaign to deepen citizens’ interest in government’s spending and address accompanying corrupt practices.
Agu added that collaboration with the ministry was a strategic move to collectively combat corruption, illicit financial flows and track to completion, development projects in rural areas so people can have access to potable drinking water, standard healthcare and even primary education.

WikiLeaks founder Assange denied bail despite US extradition block
WikiLeaks founder, Julian Assange must remain in custody in Britain, while the US appeals a court decision to block his extradition to face charges there for leaking secret documents, a judge in London ruled Wednesday.
Judge Vanessa Baraitser, who on Monday refused to grant his extradition, told Westminster Magistrates Court that if released there were “substantial grounds” to suspect Assange would “fail to surrender” for future appeal hearings.
“Mr Assange still has an incentive to abscond from these as yet unresolved proceedings,” she said.
“As a matter of fairness the United States must be able to challenge my decision.
If Mr Assange absconds during this process then they will have lost the opportunity to do so.”
Outside court, lawyer Stella Morris, Assange’s fiancee and the mother of two of his children, called the decision “a huge disappointment” and urged the US Justice Department to drop the charges.
A lawyer for the US government earlier urged Baraitser not to release the controversial Australian publisher, and detailed how it planned to challenge her decision to block his extradition on mental health grounds.
“We respectfully submit on behalf of the United States that there are insurmountable hurdles to Mr Assange being granted bail,” Clair Dobbin said.
She added there were “no conditions that could guarantee his surrender” in future.
“The history of his attempts to evade extradition to the United States demonstrate that he is capable of going to any length to avoid that possibility,” Dobbin said.
The court “should be under no doubt about his resources to abscond” and pointed to offers of political asylum, notably from Mexico, she added.
‘Motive to abscond’  
Assange attended court wearing a suit and mask over his mouth, two days after the unexpected decision to deny his removal to the United States on the basis the risk of his suicide there was too great.
Edward Fitzgerald, his lawyer, argued he should be freed after spending 15 months in custody awaiting the extradition proceedings.
Baraitser’s decision on Monday “certainly changes any motive to abscond,” he added.
“The court has given a decision and the decision has been that he should be discharged.”
Assange is wanted in Washington to face 18 charges relating to the 2010 release by WikiLeaks of 500,000 secret files detailing aspects of military campaigns in Afghanistan and Iraq.
The US claims he helped intelligence analyst Chelsea Manning steal the 2010 documents before exposing confidential sources around the world.
He faces a possible 175-year sentence if convicted but Assange and his lawyers have long argued the case against him is politically motivated.
He has been held at the high-security Belmarsh prison in southeast London.
A previous request for bail in March on the grounds he was vulnerable to Covid-19 behind bars was rejected.
Assange sought sanctuary in Ecuador’s embassy in 2012, after Sweden issued an arrest warrant in connection with sexual assault allegations.
He spent seven years at the South American country’s London mission until the government in Quito revoked his citizenship.
British police dragged him out and arrested him in 2019.
He was then sentenced to 50 weeks in jail for breaching his bail terms in connection with the Swedish case, which was later dropped due to lack of evidence.
The UN called the sentence “disproportionate”.
‘Unnecessarily cruel’  
Assange’s long-running legal woes have become a cause celebre for media freedom, even though the judge hearing the case said he did have a case to answer.
Baraitser on Monday said he would have been “well aware” of the effects of his leaking of secret documents, and his actions went “well beyond” the role of a journalist.
But she said extradition would be “oppressive” as his mental health would probably deteriorate in the US penal system, “causing him to commit suicide”.
She rejected US experts’ testimony that Assange would be protected from self-harm, noting that others such as disgraced US financier Jeffrey Epstein had managed to kill themselves in custody despite supervision.
UN rapporteur on torture
Nils Melzer applauded the decision to block his extradition, and said he should be freed and compensated for his ordeal, which amounted to arbitrary detention.
But he said Baraitser had effectively confirmed the rationale behind the US case, which “effectively amounts to criminalising national security journalism”.
The United States has called the ruling “extremely disappointing” and has faced calls from WikiLeaks, as well as rights and media freedom groups to drop the appeal.
Media advocacy group Reporters Without Borders said Wednesday’s denial of bail was “unnecessarily cruel”.
Wikileaks editor-in-chief Kristinn Hrafnsson urged outgoing US President Donald Trump and his successor Joe Biden to pardon Assange, while expressing confidence “justice will prevail”.

Ahmed Musa set to make NPFL return against Adamawa Utd
Kano Pillars have said their new signing, Ahmed Musa will make his debut against relegation bound Adamawa United on Sunday, May 16.
This was disclosed on Sunday in a statement by Pillars Spokesman, Alhaji Idris Rilwanu Malikawa immediately after their 1-1 draw against Warri Wolves in Ozoro.
Pillars who were reduced to 10-men in the first half of the match took the lead through Auwalu Malam Ali in the 58th minute before Mark Daniel scored the equaliser for the hosts from the spot in the 86th minute to force the former Nigerian champions to a 1-1 draw.
Malikawa said Pillars have since returned to Kano where they would intensify preparations for their next match against Adamawa United.
The Spokesman also quoted the Technical Adviser of Pillars, Ibrahim Musa as saying “The next thing for us is to go and concentrate on match day 21 against Adamawa United FC at Ahmadu Bello stadium kaduna next week.
“Playing against a relegated team is not easy but we would do our best to win the maximum points in order to consolidate on our position and target for the season.”

Varsity workers to FG: Campus security men need guns
The president of the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), Mohammed Ibrahim Haruna, says his members are no long safe on campuses.
He called on the Federal Government to license the use of guns for local security men on various campuses to protect the institutions.
He was addressing newsmen in Abuja at the weekend after the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of the association.
He said this would help all the established security agencies already overwhelmed with security challenges.
“We’re here to deliberate on a wide range of issues.
Topmost among those issues is the security of our members who work in the university environment.
Our members can’t travel freely, they can’t move around with ease, anytime they do so, they get kidnapped.
This is unacceptable!
“We’re calling on the federal government to license our security men on campuses who are our members, train and re-train them from time to time and monitor them.
By doing this, security challenges in our institutions will reduce,” Haruna said.
He cautioned the government against paralyzing academic activities in tertiary institutions again with its “lackadaisical attitude” towards the implementation of the Memorandum of Action (MoA)
both parties signed.
He explained only three of their eight demands had been addressed partially by the government.
He said the association might resume its suspended strike soon if the issues that had continued to make members poorer than expected were not quickly addressed.

Biden makes history, declares century-old killing of Armenians ‘genocide’
President Joe Biden has formally recognized the Ottoman Empire’s killing and deportation of Armenians over a century ago as a genocide.
The declaration is a break from his predecessors and risking inflaming tensions with Turkey, a NATO ally.
Biden had pledged as a presidential candidate to recognize the Armenians’ treatment, which took place in modern-day Turkey, as genocide.
Armenian-Americans have long called on U.S. presidents to do so, but Turkey, a key NATO ally, has warned the U.S. against it, long maintaining that the violence was part of bloody clashes during World War I.
The Turkish government of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has not yet responded to Biden’s designation, but its foreign minister warned earlier this week a declaration would “make relations worse.”
Ties between the two allies have been increasingly strained in recent years, although Biden finally spoke to Erdogan Friday — their first call during Biden’s tenure — and conveyed “his interest in a constructive bilateral relationship with expanded areas of cooperation and effective management of disagreements.”
Biden used the word “genocide” in a statement to mark “Armenian Remembrance Day” on Saturday — 106 years after the events that the Armenian diaspora considers the start of the genocide.
Previous presidents had avoided using the label even as they made the traditional, annual proclamation honouring the anniversary.
“Each year on this day, we remember the lives of all those who died in the Ottoman-era Armenian genocide and recommit ourselves to preventing such an atrocity from ever again occurring,” Biden said in the statement.
“Beginning on April 24, 1915, with the arrest of Armenian intellectuals and community leaders in Constantinople by Ottoman authorities,
one and a half million Armenians were deported, massacred, or marched to their deaths in a campaign of extermination.”
The statement was expected, especially after then-candidate Biden marked last year’s remembrance day by saying, “Silence is complicity.”
“If we do not fully acknowledge, commemorate, and teach our children about genocide, the words ‘never again’ lose their meaning,” he wrote, pledging to back a congressional resolution that recognized the Ottoman Empire’s actions as genocide.
Resolutions to recognize the genocide passed the House and Senate in 2019, but
former President Donald Trump, like his predecessors, never joined them.
On Wednesday, over 100 bipartisan members of Congress sent a letter to Biden calling on him to use his proclamation to officially label what happened a “genocide.”
The Ottoman Turks deported around 2 million Armenians starting in 1915.
Around 1.5 million Armenians are estimated to have been killed.
The Turkish government agrees that fighting during the war killed many, but it has long denied that the treatment of the Christian Armenians by the Muslim Ottomans amounted to genocide and says that the death toll was lower.
Over two-dozen countries have recognized the atrocities as genocide, according to the Armenian National Institute, a Washington-based group that advocates for the genocide designation.
Biden’s statement carries no legal implication, and even if the State Department were to follow up with a formal declaration, there are no automatic sanctions or other penalties that kick in.
On its final day with former President Donald Trump in office, the Trump administration declared the Chinese government’s treatment of Uighurs and other Muslim ethnic minorities as genocide, without implementing sanctions.
But the comments will rattle U.S.-Turkish relations, already on ice over a litany of disagreements, and could damage relations between Biden and Erdogan, who had a warm relationship with Trump.
Trump often touted his “friendship” with the strongman president and repeatedly pulled punches against his government until his hand was forced by political pressure, including from congressional Republicans.
(ABCNews)

Minneapolis reaches $27m settlement with Floyd family
The family of George Floyd, the Black man who died while being arrested by a white police officer in Minneapolis, has reached a $27 million settlement with the Minnesota city, lawyers for the family announced Friday.
The settlement is the “largest pre-trial settlement in a civil rights wrongful death case in US history,” the family lawyers said in a statement.
Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin is currently on trial facing murder and manslaughter charges in connection with Floyd’s
May 25 death.
Three other officers also face charges.(AFP)

Prince Philip interred in royal vault of St George’s Chapel
Prince Philip’s coffin has been interred in the royal vault of St George’s Chapel.
It was placed on a catafalque on a marble slab and lowered into the vault by an electric motor.
The vault was created between 1804 and 1810 for George III, who died in 1820 and is one of three kings buried there.
The other two are George IV and William IV.
Horns were played as his coffin was lowered down.
A blessing was given by the Archbishop of Canterbury before the choir sang the national anthem, “God Save the Queen.”
The members of the royal family looked up as the choir sang while the queen bowed her head.
The 94-year-old monarch was then led out of the church by the archbishop and followed by her family members.
Prince William, her grandson, was seen glancing back at the vault as he left his pew.
In the funeral procession which departed Windsor Castle to the chapel was Queen Elizabeth II, who was driven in a car.
It was her first appearance in public since the death of her husband.
Philip’s coffin had been draped with his personal standard and was driven in a green military Land Rover Defender.
The children of Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip – Prince Charles, Prince Andrew, Princess Anne and Prince Edward – walked behind the Land Rover.
Also in the procession were the Earl of Wessex, Prince Harry, Peter Phillips, Prince William, Vice Admiral Tim Lawrence, and the Earl of Snowdon.
Queen Elizabeth II followed behind in a car.
For the eight-minute procession, a gun was fired by the King’s Troop Royal Horse Artillery from the East Lawn of Windsor Castle.
(dpa/NAN)

Farmer murdered in FCT community
A 32-year-old farmer, Yusufa Adamu, has been hacked to death by at Gada-Biyu village in Kwali Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).
A resident of Gada-Biyu, Abdullahi Yahaya, said the incident happened on Friday evening when the Adamu was returning from his farm and was attacked with a machete.
According to him, the family of the deceased raised alarm after he was not seen at home on Friday and that members of the vigilante mobilised to the farm on Sunday where they discovered the decomposing body of the farmer with machete cuts.
The spokesperson of the FCT Police Command, ASP Maryam Yusuf, was yet to reply to a text message sent to her phone to confirm the incident.

Another INEC office set ablaze in Imo
Another office of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) have been set ablaze in Imo State.
Daily Trust gathered that the located at Okwudor in Njaba Local Government Area of the state was burnt down on Sunday morning.
The incident is coming less than 24 hours after Atta police station, customary and high courts were burnt down in the same local council.
INEC Public Relations Officer in the state, Mrs. Emmanuella Opara, confirmed the development.
Last week, INEC had raised an alarm over the burning of its offices nationwide, saying the action might undermine the conduct of future elections.
The commission said no fewer than 41 INEC offices have been burnt this year alone.

How support tools, others can uplift 41.5m MSMEs
Nigeria’s Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) industry is not being optimised as it should be in spite of its critical role in national development.
Although MSMEs’ contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) has not been clear because of the lack of structure and data, the narrative is fast changing.
According to data by the Small and Medium scale Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN) and the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), there are about 41.5 million MSMEs in Nigeria.
Collectively they account for about 50 percent of Nigeria’s GDP.
There is growing consciousness of the critical role MSMEs play in economic development.
Beyond job creation, MSMEs are critical to improving the living standards of citizens as well as important local capital formation.
They also help drive innovation and competition in developing economies.
Towards boosting the growth of MSMEs, there have been several MSMEs-supported programmes by the federal government through the Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN), Bank of Industry (BOI), Bank of Agriculture (BOA), SMEDAN and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) which has been the biggest enabler of small businesses.
The CBN intervenes with soft loans disbursed through the deposit money banks and the microfinance banks, especially the NIRSAL Microfinance bank.
Aside from the public sector-sponsored initiatives, there are private sector entities striving to support MSMEs sector.
One of these is the MTN Revv programme which helps small businesses rethink and re-learn their operations to enable them to mitigate the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.
This year, 200 MSMEs were selected to be a part of MTN’s accelerator programme, Y’ello 200, from across the country.
The participants had a series of 11 master-classes by seasoned facilitators across various subsectors of the economy.
At the graduation ceremony recently, some beneficiaries and the coordinators spoke about the programme.
Olubukola Ogunmola, CEO of Wanbuk and Device which produces pap, said he has benefited immensely.
“Our workforce has also grown to enable us to meet the demands of our growing customers.”
Another beneficiary, Daniel Ikwong, CEO of Future IDEAS said: “I have been well equipped with best practices and thoroughly enjoyed every bit of the Y’ello 200 onboarding experience; the business has not been the same again.”
Also, Raheem Yusuff Olatunji, CEO, Yutex Entertainment said for him, the programme was a rewarding experience.
“I’m now a better manager of my business.
It couldn’t have happened at a better time because the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on my company was enormous.”
The Chief Enterprise Business Officer, MTN Nigeria,
Lynda Saint-Nwafor, said, “With MSMEs accounting for 94% of all businesses in Nigeria and 84% of employment.
So our goal is to empower MSMEs with the tool to make them thrive in the economy.”
Modupe Kadri, Chief Financial Officer, MTN Nigeria, said: “We have always believed SMEs are the wheels that drive any economy and that positioning them for growth means empowering and enabling them with the right digital solutions.”
Equally, Coca-Cola Nigeria Limited and the Whitefield Foundation recently empowered over 20,000 individuals with business skills across the 36 states of Nigeria through the Special Intervention Programme (SIP).
They said through SIP, they have been able to support the livelihood of young Nigerians following the economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic which hit in 2020.
By the end of the programme in April, the participants had completed three different stages of courses anchored by seasoned facilitators.
During the graduation ceremony recently, the Director, Public Affairs, Communications and Sustainability of the firm, Nwamaka Onyemelukwe said: “We recognized that unemployment rates were on the rise with the poverty rates reaching a peak, and as a socially-responsible company focused on refreshing the world, we are also committed to making a difference in the lives of people and communities”.
Founder, Whitefield Foundation, Olufunmilola Johnson said, “We are excited by the success of SIP and this initiative was born out of the need to help make more successful people who will grow our economy in Nigeria.”
A beneficiary, Anu Oshilaja, founder of Annyz Fabric Bags, shared her life-changing story on the impact of the programme and the funding she had received to further her business.
She also gifted hand-crafted bags to the women dignitaries at the event.

Reasons Katsina zobo farmers recorded poor harvest
Hibiscus roselle (zobo) farmers in Katsina State have recorded a decline in production despite fair rainfall this year.
The farmers said the poor harvest was as a result of the absence of affordable fertiliser from the beginning of the rainy season, and the invasion of their farms by herdsmen from Niger Republic.
They also lamented that the continued relocation of some of their markets and lack of government support were part of their major challenges this year.
They observed that the heavy rainfall recorded towards the end of the season did not favour the roselle plant to grow up to its usual height, which would have enabled it to produce good seeds that would eventually produce the blossom red seed coat or cover, popularly known as zobo.
A renowned farmer, Malam Abdullahi Kwangwama
Malam Abdullahi Kwangwama, a zobo farmer in Mani Local Government Area of the state, in an interview with Daily Trust, disclosed that from the beginning of last season there was no manure or fertiliser to apply to the plant, a situation that slowed down its growth.
Malam Kwangwama said, “We did not get any fertiliser from the government throughout the season, and that made it difficult for the plant to grow early.
The few bags we were able to buy from the market at N12,000 per bag came late, and it couldn’t help it to grow up to the height of my chest, which is its normal height; therefore, it couldn’t produce much seeds.
“I did not plant much food crops this year.
And I am only able to harvest 60 bags of hibiscus this season, as against 85 bags
I got last year.
I have two wives and eight children; six of them are in school, and this is my only hope of feeding them and paying their school fees.
“If government wants to support us to produce zobo in commercial quantity for domestic use in Nigeria and export, all they need to do is make adequate plans for the provision of fertiliser at cheaper prices and support farmers to access non-interest loans that can enable us hire and cultivate more farmlands.
This is because buyers are always waiting for the produce, and we are ready to do more as well.”
The roselle seed coat or cover is used in producing the popular zobo juice in Nigeria, which is considered useful in the treatment of stomach upset, high blood pressure, weight loss, among others.
In some countries, it is used in tea production, colouring, dyeing, drug production and cosmetics.
Another farmer and merchant of zobo, Ali Makeri, complained that one of the challenges they were facing was the relocation of the market by the authorities of Mashi Local Government Area, which he said was affecting patronage.
According to him, the market has been relocated severally to various places, which are far away from the Mashi main market.
He further said, “Even though we pay revenue to the local government and create jobs, for over five times they have been relocating us from one bushy area to another.
Once they discovered that we had settled and developed a particular place, they would come overnight and take us to another isolated area.
The last one was this year when they brought us here, close to the Mashi Ultra-Modern Market.
“It is far away from the main market and our customers are scared to come here, for security purposes.
Therefore, we are appealing to the chairman to reason with us and allocate a permanent and convenient place close to the main market because most of our customers come from different parts of the country; and they will be comfortable if we are close to the main market.”
On whether zobo farmers in Katsina State have the capacity to produce large quantities for export, Makeri said, “Why not?
There are hundreds of men and women hibiscus farmers in Katsina State because it is lucrative.
Last year alone, we sold it at N8,000 per bag from the beginning, and at some point, it reached N20,000 per bag.
All we need is support.
If government can attract investors here and build a factory that can supply us with fertiliser, equipment and loans to hire more lands, I can assure you that we will generate more revenue for Nigeria.”
Another farmer, Malam Yusuf Gwani Gobirawa in Kaita Local Government Area complained that herdsmen from neighbouring Niger Republic invaded their farms before they could finish harvesting this year.
He said, “Our hibiscus did not ripe very well when we noticed that herdsmen from Niger Republic arrived and started pushing their animals into our farms.
However, the member representing us in the House of Assembly intervened through traditional rulers and we were asked to quickly harvest anything remaining in our farms in order to avoid clashes with the herdsmen.
I got only 45 bags as against the 70 to 80
I expected this year.
Our borders are porous.
Government needs to check the activities of these herdsmen from Niger Republic by closing the border, especially when it comes towards the end of seasons so that we can peacefully harvest our farm produce.
You know we largely depend on local manure from our domestic cattle.
But now, we cannot keep our animals away from home.
Even at home, we are having sleepless nights to protect them from being stolen.
We are really helpless in the hands of the rustlers.”
Zobo is sold in Dankama, Mashi and Mai’adua markets in the state.
The current market price is between N7,500 and N8,000 per bag.
It is expected to reach N20,000 before the beginning of next season.
The major producers of the crop in Nigeria are Katsina, Kano, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe and Jigawa states.
In 2017 the Nigerian Agricultural Quarantine Service (NAQS) disclosed that the country generated $35million within nine months in 2017 from zobo export.

Lagos East: Court of Appeal upholds Abiru’s victory
The Court of Appeal has dismissed the appeal filed by the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the December 5 Lagos East Senatorial by-election, Babatunde Olalere Gbadamosi.
The presiding judge, Justice Daniel Kallio dismissed the prayers of the appellants seeking to upturn the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Senator Mukhail Adetokunbo Abiru, for lacking in merit.
In the ruling delivered virtually, the court said PDP and its candidate’s appeal was unmeritorious.
It subsequently affirmed the judgment of the Federal High Court, Lagos.
In dismissing the appeal, the Court of Appeal held that the residency of a candidate to an election is not a qualifying or disqualifying factor.

The (un)forgotten holocaust!
By Abdulrazaq Magaji
“Therefore, said I (Jesus) unto you (Jews), The kingdom of God shall be taken from you, and given to a nation bringing forth the fruits thereof.”
(Matthew 21:43)
“And the Lord shall bring you (Jews) into Egypt again with ships ….and
there ye shall be sold unto your enemies ….and
no man shall buy you.”
(Deuteronomy 28:68)
“Now will he (the Lord) remember their (Jews) iniquity, and visit their (Jews) sins: they (Jews) shall return to Egypt.”
(Hosea 8:13)
Reading the three passages from the New and Old Testament of the Bible, one gets the impression that World Jewry has the unenviable task of averting or mitigating what Bible scholars aptly refer to as the Second Bondage!
This reflects in Israeli response to the slightest of provocations, which also goes to remind us of the parable of a dying man who refuses to go down alone.
The stage for the current slaughter in the Middle East was laid when the world commemorated the 75th anniversary of the so-called holocaust last year.
After the semblance of an entente cordiale that followed the event, and even before images from Auschwitz and Jerusalem disappeared from television screens, then cantankerous American President, Donald Trump, rolled out a Middle East Peace Plan that virtually rolled back the modest progress made in the restive region.
If Trump’s successor, President Joe Biden has a plan to resolve the crisis in the Middle East, he is yet to unfold it.
So far, Mr Biden appears satisfied to stick to the wrong-headed plan he inherited from Mr Trump.
Whatever the case, it was careless of Mr Biden to play down the ongoing holocaust in occupied Palestine on the epidemic excuse that Israelis have a right to defend themselves!
In one fell swoop, Mr Biden has behaved typically by wittingly shredding the Oslo and Camp David Accords.
Biden’s unadvertised plan, which morbidly fits into Trump’s ‘final solution’, means occupied Palestine will retain its ignoble status as one big prison where eviction of Palestinians and expropriation of their lands will proceed, pari passu, with their unrestrained slaughter.
It is all in the queer belief that “the only good Palestinian is the dead one!”
Since Israel officially came into being in 1948, the unadvertised goal of stiff-necked Jewish leaders and their clappers has been to shatter the alleged record set by Adolf Hitler.
And, strangely, a complicit world keeps goading Israel!
All these are coming at a time world powers claim they are increasingly united against forces of terror and darkness.
Hypocrisy is winning and, as usual, America and the West are basking in their warped victory.
Basking from a one-directional backing of Trump’s unregenerate policies, hawkish Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, whose country has been responsible for most of the violence in the world, has been grinning from ear to ear.
But the culture of silence has never always been infectious.
On the other side of the divide is Iran and a few Muslim and Palestinian organisations that have been consistent in their condemnation of what they consider the annual ritual commemoration of a hollow cause.
But as has always happened, they have had their shrill cry of condemnation drowned in the global display of hypocrisy.
Under normal circumstances, any act of great destruction and loss of life, such as the genocide (in Rwanda), ethnic cleansing (as in Bosnia Herzegovina and Myanmar)
apartheid (in white minority-ruled South Africa) and the senseless Jewish discriminatory practices (in occupied Palestine) qualify to be referred to as holocaust.
Strangely, the word holocaust is rendered hollow in its restricted application as it is exclusively and, hypocritically, employed to refer to the alleged incineration of six Jews in concentration camps.
May be
Adolf Hitler was wrong but
the way the descendants of his alleged six million victims behave in the Middle East, one is tempted to ask, at the risk of being dubbed anti-Semite: was Hitler right?
This question will continue to excite in view of the unspeakable and despicable atrocities committed by Jews in occupied Palestine.
Little wonder that, despite efforts to criminalise holocaust-denial, Palestinians and their American and European sympathisers desist from criminalising and animalising Adolf Hitler.
No holocaust or ‘Final Solution’ ever worked!
And the proof of this could be found in successive Israeli offensives in occupied Palestine that laid bare the vulnerability of the overrated Israeli Defence Force, IDF.
For instance, whatever air of invincibility the IDF enjoyed has evaporated in the face of resistance from Hamas and Hezbollah (Hizbullah; Party of God) and other anti-occupation groups!
While world powers continue to turn a blind eye, extremist groups, many of them trained by the United States to ‘contain Soviet expansionism’, have grabbed the initiative.
The struggle for the creation of Israel was not a tea party nor was the state birthed by United Nations resolutions.
Rather, it came through the barrel of the gun!
Pioneer Israeli terrorists such as Chaim Weizmann, David Ben Gurion and their ultra-right fellow travellers in World Jewry took up arms, organised themselves into terrorist groups and spearheaded the worse form of terrorism in their quest to secure a home!
It was the bombing spree of Jewish terrorist organisations that led to the creation of Israel in 1948.
Palestinians have been told they have no option but to fight.
The way things are, Palestinian resistance groups and their sympathisers, long opposed to the concept of a two-state solution, feel fulfilled and justified in their wrongheaded struggle to wipe Israel from the face of the earth!
Reason?
American Middle East policies provide the tonic they need to fight.
In fact, for every Hamas and other militant Palestinian groups the world knows today, the Jews had their terrorist Irgun and Zvai terror machines.
They are doing for Palestine what Zvai and Irgun did for Israel in the early part of the 20th Century.
As good students of history, Hamas and allied radical Palestinian groups are aware that no amount of hours spent around tables would give them a home!
They know too well that had Jewish terrorists such as Chaim Weizmann and David Ben-Gurion and their land-grabbing descendants fallen for the sweet talk of the West, Jews would still be wandering in Europe and not as lords of the manor in the Middle East.
If Palestinians fail to emulate their fighting Jewish cousins of the early and mid-20th Century, they should just as well forget about a Palestinian homeland!
Let the world continue to believe that Palestinians are an unformed people and continue to see Jews as a special breed.
Fine!
It does not even matter that some western countries see holocaust denial as a major crime and refuse to apply the word to victims of Israeli discriminatory practices against their Palestinian cousins.
What does matter, at the end of the day, is that it amounts to a hollow cause to glorify one holocaust and turn the blind eye to another!
Magaji lives in Abuja and can be reached via magaji778@gmail.com

Why Abia prefers dry port to airport — Gov. Ikpeazu
The Governor of Abia State, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu has said that the state under his administration would prefer to build a dry port instead of an airport.
Governor Ikpeazu, who stated this in Aba, the commercial nerve centre of the state said a dry port would serve greater economic interest of the Abia populace than an airport which he said would serve less than 10 per cent business interest of the state.
“As governor of this state, I am thinking of a dry port.
I have heard people ask why not an airport
and I want to seize this opportunity to officially respond to the issue of an airport.
For me, the need for a dry port will serve the economic interest of my people better than the need for an airport
“I am happy to acknowledge the fact that neighbouring states to Abia have airports.
What that means is that within 100 kilometres radius, Abia will have access to airport, but what you cannot find within a hundred kilometres radius is a dry port,” he said.
The Governor said an airport in Abia would likely serve less than 10 per cent of the Abia populace and business interest, considering that such airport would not have an operational international cargo status.
“So, I think the way to go is to look at what will serve my people, about 95 per cent of goods you find at the seaport in Apapa and Onne ports including those that are delayed for three months belong to my people here in Abia.
“As the governor, the question I ask myself is, can I in any way lift this burden when I bring them to a point of importing or exporting goods to or from Abia?
That is why I think that a dry port will serve the business interest of my people than an airport,” he said.

Inflation rate drops to 18.12%, first in 20 months
Inflation rate has dropped to 18.12 percent in April from 18.17 percent recorded in March, the latest report said.
The decline in inflation rate which is slightly at 0.5 percent, is the first in the last 20 months since the country recorded a steady rise.
The Consumer Price Index (CPI) released on Monday by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) revealed that urban inflation rate increased by 18.68% (year-on-year) in April 2021, down by 0.61% of the rate recorded in March 2021 (1.60%).
The rural index also rose by 0.95% in April, down by 0.57% from the 1.52% recorded in March 2021.
Food inflation rate declined to 22.75% in April from 22.95% in March.
‘The rise in the food index was caused by an increase in prices of coffee, tea, coca, bread and cereals, soft drinks, milk, cheese and eggs, among others,’ it noted.
On a month-on-month basis, the food sub index increased by 0.99% in April 2021, down by 0.91% points from 1.90% recorded in March 2021.
Analysis of the report showed that food inflation in April was highest in Kogi at (30.52%), Ebonyi (28.07%) and Sokoto (26.09%).
The following states recorded the least food inflation: Abuja (18.63%), Akwa-Ibom (18.51%), and Bauchi (17.64%).
The highest increases were recorded in prices of pharmaceutical products, vehicle spare parts, hairdressing salons, and personal grooming establishments, major household goods, fuel and lubricants among others.

Gov Sule throws weight behind Keffi Polo tourney
The Governor of Nasarawa State, Engineer Abdulahi Sule has thrown his weight behind the 2021 Keffi Polo tournament billed for 21 – 28 of June in Keffi.
Sule said sports is not only a veritable tool for fostering friendship, national unity and cultural understanding but also a magnet for international diplomacy and global investment.
He said the state is proud to host and support the Keffi Ranch and its choice sport of polo as a way of showcasing to the world that the state welcomes prospective investors.
Sule also commended the founder of Keffi Polo Ranch, Hon.
Ahmed Wadada for his tenacity, zeal and commitment to the promotion of the game in the state.
On his part, Wadada told Polo Royals that Keffi Polo Ranch project has achieved all its set goals as a commercial entity and a charity platform that supports education and the less privileged and orphans in Nasarawa State.
“I’ve always believed in giving back to society.
It’s a huge pleasure to champion the birth of polo here and use the proceeds to benefit the orphanages and education in Nasarawa State
and I’ve been lucky my little efforts are yielding results,” he said.
Tournament Manager, Bashir Mohammed told Polo Royals that the 2021 edition would be better as he disclosed that many teams have indicated interest to vie for top laurels during the weeklong fiesta.

Wike, Amaechi bicker over cause of insecurity in Rivers
Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike has countered transport minister Rotimi Amaechi’s claim linking insecurity in Rivers to unemployment.
Amaechi had made the comments during the defection of two former commissioners in Wike’s administration to the APC in Port Harcourt.
He had also countered the imposition of a curfew in Rivers arguing that he took the war to the camp of criminals terrorising the state when he was governor.
In a statement issued by Wike’s special assistant on media, Kevin Ebiri, the governor called the minister’s comments disingenuous.
“Is unemployment fuelling insecurity in Kaduna, Plateau, Borno, Yobe, Ondo, Ebony, Imo, Niger States governed by the All Progressives Congress (APC),” he queried.
He said if the minister, who is the immediate past governor of the state has any modicum of sincerity, he will attest to the fact that security is the sole responsibility of the federal government.
“Is he (Amaechi) trying to indict his boss, President Muhammad Buhari, who is the Commander in Chief of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and who is constitutionally saddled with the responsibility to provide security for Nigerians.
“It is a well-known fact that Amaechi is the one who appoints every Commissioner of Police that has been posted to Rivers State since 2015.
So, if there is any security failure, he is to blame,” he pointed out.
Governor Wike described the minister’s utterance on the current imposition of curfew in the State, following the recent attacks on police formations, as rather unfortunate.
”
Perhaps, the minister is happy that members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) are killing innocent policemen, who were protecting lives and property.
Is Amaechi happy that the weapons of this slain security personnel were carted away by the hoodlums?
Amaechi, from all indications, has lost focus and is now frustrated,” he stated.

Diet and brain training help Mickelson to major history
Phil Mickelson is not the first middle-aged person to change his diet and engage in brain training in a quest to feel and perform better, but he is the first to win a major golf championship after turning 50.
While Mickelson’s performance at the PGA Championship will provide further that it is not too late to pad those career resumes with another major victory.
“There’s no reason why golf can’t be the game for a lifetime if you take care of your body and do it the right way,” the Californian said after beating Brooks Koepka and Louis Oosthuizen by two strokes at Kiawah Island on Sunday.

US based group plans to revive baseball in Nigeria
The International Sports Association (ISA), a US-based global sports body, has indicated its readiness to revive baseball and softball games in Nigeria.
To this end, it has concluded plans to build a baseball sports academy in Ilorin in its first phase of the audacious project expected to gulp millions of dollars across the country to develop young talents.
Speaking with journalists in Ilorin, the president of the ISA, Jason Alan Charles, who led other members of the organization to the state said the development programme would train indigenous coaches who are expected to bring out the best in the young lads.
“We intend to achieve all these through the construction of academies, training of indigenous coaches through coaching clinic, courses, classes, online video and manuals among others to avail them requisite knowledge and ability to excel and produce world-class talents in baseball”, he noted.
According to him, the programme, expected to kick-start in August in Kwara state, would focus on scouting for young talents in baseball across the state from age six to university undergraduates.
Also speaking, the state’s Director of Sports, Ibrahim Alarape, praised ISA for the choice of Kwara state to pilot the baseball game development programme, saying that the sports academy would also propel enthusiasm among lovers of the game.

Team Nigeria Japan camp opens July 3 for Tokyo Olympics
The Federal Ministry of  Youth and Sports Development has unveiled a comprehensive plan for Team Nigeria towards winning medals at the Tokyo Olympics.
According to the roadmap released by the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Nebeolisa Anako on Thursday, the final stage of local camping will take place from May 15 to July 6 in Bayelsa, Abuja, Lagos and Port Harcourt.
Track and Field National Olympics Trials will take place between June 17 and July 19, while the African Athletics Championship takes centre stage from June 22 to 26.
The last phase of the camping will be in Kisarazu, Japan, from July 3 to 23, when the first batch of athletes will enter the Games Village for the Olympics proper.
Nigeria will present about 80 athletes in 10 Sports at the Tokyo Olympics.
Wrestling, taekwondo, table tennis, male and female basketball are some of the events Nigeria have qualified.
Others are track and field, weightlifting and rowing, canoeing and sailing.
Nigeria decided to narrow down her participation to sports where she has competitive advantage in winning medals.
Minister of Youth and Sports Development Sunday Dare has maintained that Team Nigeria will improve on her performance of the last two Olympics, where she won only two bronze in football and Track and Field.
Meanwhile, the Nigeria female Rowing team departed for Lucerne,  Switzerland, on Wednesday to participate in the final Qualifiers for the Regatta event of the Tokyo Olympics.
(NAN)

Ahmed Musa may leave Pillars in June
Super Eagles captain, Ahmed Musa, has given a hint that he may leave Kano Pillars in June.
The former CSKA Moscow and Leicester City striker joined Pillars temporarily having been without a club for months.
Although he refused to disclose his next destination, he said by next month, it will be known.
In an interview he granted on Wednesday, Musa also said he is not the one to advise Nigerian players based in Europe to return to the NPFL.
“I can’t speak for everyone.
I can only speak for myself.
I am very happy to come back to Nigeria to play football.
“It is a matter of time.
Maybe in the next one month, I may not be in Nigeria again.
“Right now, I am happy coming back home to play.
“For now, I don’t have any concrete information but by next month, you will know,” said Musa about his next destination.
Rabiu Ali, a hero
Musa lauded his teammate, Rabiu Ali, for honouring him with Kano Pillars captain’s armband.
Few seconds before Kano Pillars’ week 21 clash with Adamawa United last Sunday, Ali handed over the captain’s band to Musa who eventually propelled the team to a 1-0 victory.
Musa who described Rabiu as Kano Pillars’ legend, said he felt honoured by the kind gesture of the player who is popularly called ‘Pele’.
He said: “I have so much respect for Rabiu Ali.
He is one of my legends.
“I played along with him back then in Kano Pillars.
“And coming back to play with him, I really respect him a lot
and I want to say a big thank you to him for what he did the other day.
“It is not everyone who can do such a thing.
I really want to thank him.”

Tsitsipas to meet Norrie in Lyon final
World number five Stefanos Tsitsipas came from a set down to beat Lorenzo Musetti 4-6, 6-3, 6-0 on Saturday and reach the final of the ATP event in Lyon.
In Sunday’s final, the 22-year-old Greek will face Britain’s Cameron Norrie who raced past Karen Khachanov 6-1, 6-1 in the other semi-final.
Norrie, 25, had already played on Saturday morning having beaten French hope Arthur Rinderknech 6-3, 3-6, 6-3 in a quarter-final suspended overnight with the last set still to play.
Musetti, 19, came into the event as an alternate but made the most of his chance with wins over seventh seed Felix Auger-Aliassime, Sebastian Korda and Aljaz Bedene.
The Italian teenager grabbed the first set but Tsitsipas gradually took charge.
“It was important I had a match like this,” said Tsitsipas on the court after the match.
“It makes me stay humble and focus on some detailed things I can potentially improve and get better at on clay.
“I had to stay calm.
It was difficult to be a set down and have to kind of refresh myself and come anew in the second set.”

Fans want Osho sacked as Enyimba exit Confed Cup
Fans of Enyimba have called for the sack of the technical adviser, Coach Fatai Osho after the ‘Peoples elephants’ crashed out of this year’s CAF Confederation Cup on Sunday.
After suffering a 4-1 loss in the first leg, Enyimba forced Pyramids of Egypt to a 1-1 draw in the return leg in Aba to exit the competition on a 2-5 aggregate.
Immediately after the match, fans of Enyimba expressed their disappointment while calling for the sack of the coach.
An ardent fan, Austin Ihenacho said “I think we Enyimba fans are tired of putting up with osho and his local tactics.
How is ‘sun’ a tactic in football in the 21st century?
It shows he doesn’t have any other trick up his sleeves.
He should just bow out honourably.”
Ugo Udogu said Enyimba is so bad, below amateur level and with no structure.
“With Fatai Osho, Enyimba have fallen from grace to grass.
He should leave”.
On his part, Agbai Michael said the management of Enyimba shouldn’t take the fans for granted.
“If the current coach is not living up to expectations, show him the door.
We cannot continue to endure matches rather than enjoy them,” he said.

TAJBank expands, opens 3 branches in Abuja
TAJBank, a non-interest bank, has opened three branches in Abuja as it drives financial inclusion while offering innovative financial services to its customers.
Potential customers were observed at the new technology-powered branches at Wuse, Garki and Gudu markets as they came to open accounts.
During the opening ceremony in Abuja’s
Wuse market, the bank’s Chairman, Alhaji Tanko Isiaku Gwamna, said the new branches were part of the bank’s mission to serve as a catalyst for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises’ (MSMEs’)
sustainable growth in Nigeria.
He said, “By launching these branches in locations that are particular to the ecosystem of the businessman and women, we are fulfilling our mission of making seamless banking solutions accessible to all businesses.
“Let me assure all our old and potential customers that TAJBank will continue to serve your interest and support every step you take to improve your business operations for profitability and your socio-economic wellbeing through interest-free loans and unparalleled quality service delivery.”
Since the bank opened in December 2019, it has recorded multiple feats including recording profit in its first year operation.
It plans to quickly expand its branch networks and extend its services to the six geopolitical zones.
In his remarks at the event, President of the National Association of Nigerian Traders (NANTS), Ken Ukaoha lauded TAJBank for bringing interest-free banking services to traders in Abuja.
“We are happy that TAJBank is supporting Nigerian traders and we will also reciprocate their goodwill by encouraging traders to do business with the bank so as to facilitate a win-win experience for the bank and traders nationwide.
Indeed, we would meet to strengthen the symbiotic relationship.”

NALDA to engage 2,000 fish farmers, 1,040 soil scientists in Borno
The executive secretary of the National Agricultural Land Development Agency (NALDA), Prince Paul Ikonne, said the agency was engaging about 2,000 fish farmers and would commence the training of 1,040 soil doctors in Borno State.
Ikonne told journalists in Abuja after a meeting with the governor of Borno State, Professor Babagana
Umara
Zulum, that the discussion between the NALDA and the Borno State Government was  “on our fish farming programme, which we are engaging  more than 2,000 farmers.”
“Borno State has submitted their complete list and has provided the locations.
As we speak, contractors are already at the site and in the 10 locations for the project.
So the governor of Borno State has fully keyed into Mr President’s idea of achieving food security, irrespective of the challenges the state is encountering.
The governor is making it easier for the NALDA to function and for farmers to be at home while farming,” he said.
The NALDA (an agency which is directly under the presidency) last month announced the president’s approval to engage 30,000 soil doctors and extension service providers nationwide.
The training will be flagged off in Borno State early next month.
He said the agency was focusing on virtually everything in the entire agric chain in the state because they had good infrastructure in place and a lot of machineries and equipment, as well as processing mills.

Food security: Nigeria on the rise again as CBN heightens interventions
The rice pyramids have returned across the country.
The maize pyramids have returned too.
These pyramids have dotted the skylines in states like Kebbi, Niger, Katsina, Jigawa, Ekiti, and a host of others.
For some others like Lagos, Edo, Rivers and more, there are CBN financed industries maximizing the farm produce to make products.
Recall that the pyramids were hitherto lost in Nigeria until the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) under the leadership of Mr Godwin Emefiele, initiated a refreshing focus on agriculture, industries, small and medium scale enterprises and other areas of the real sector.
In fact, young adults in Nigeria of about 30 years never witnessed any agriculture produce pyramids until recently when the CBN made that happen.
When the CBN launched the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP) over five years ago, it perhaps did not anticipate the scale of success the programme would record and the impact across the country.
But five years down the line, Nigeria’s agricultural landscape has changed for good and no one single region or state is left behind.
Also, it is significant to note that the benefits have been almost evenly distributed from the north to the south from the about N700 billion released for the targeted crops and animals, and their value chains.
Speaking recently in Ado Ekiti at the public unveiling of the Ekiti rice pyramid project and flag-off of the wet season rice cultivation, the CBN Governor, Mr Emefiele, said over N300bn of the about N700bn already distributed for agriculture, has been disbursed to the southern part of country including Lagos, Edo, Ekiti, and Ondo states.
He said 21 agricultural commodities have been the most targeted, among which included rice, maize, wheat, oil palm, cocoa and several others.
“From inception till date, we have financed 3,107,890 farmers for the cultivation of 3,801,397 hectares across 21 commodities through 23 Participating Financial Institutions in the 36 States of the Federation and FCT,” he said.
Emefiele noted that “the positive impact of the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme can be seen in all our agrarian communities as it has brought hope to the farming population through the timely delivery of agricultural inputs and the provision of a guaranteed market for their outputs at a market determined price.”
He said the “ABP has been able to support some of our macroeconomic objectives by enabling more employment opportunities, driving financial inclusion and improving access to finance in our rural communities.”
Under the 2020 wet season RIFAN-CBN partnership, he said CBN “financed 221,450 farmers for the cultivation of 221,450 hectares in 32 States.
“The pyramids being unveiled today are part of the harvest from the various fields from the South-West and other neighbouring States to demonstrate the spread of the movement and provide evidence that rice production is viable in all States of the Federation.”
He said beyond RIFAN, the CBN supported a number of prime/private anchors.
Omoluabi Farms (Ekiti), Time Sellers (Ogun), Truechem (Ogun), Wems Agro (Ondo) and many more awaiting disbursements for the 2021 wet season.
Thus, CBN’s huge support for agriculture is ensuring food sufficiency, empowerment of peasant farmers and helping to save foreign exchange for Nigeria as less food imports happen.
The CBN has continued to rev up investments in the agricultural space.
It has commenced the 2021 wet season farming investments.
Emefiele said: “We have a very optimistic outlook for the 2021 wet season.
We will bring to bear our learning experiences over the past years, adoption of hybrids and high yielding varieties, timely supply of inputs to take advantage of the planting seasons, and good market linkages to sustain our effort at increasing production.
“We have planned a minimum one million hectares of rice through a combination of RIFAN farmers and prime/private anchors for each planting season in 2021.
“Our backward integration drive with rice millers is also gaining momentum as we intend to finance some millers to grow their own paddy during this wet season.
We also have aggressive production plans for maize, wheat, soybeans, cassava, sorghum and cassava,” he said.
The governor also indicated that the CBN will be helping states with funds to clear land as land clearing is a huge problem to farming.
“Land clearing, access to irrigation, and availability of high yielding seeds have remained the greatest challenge to increased agricultural production in the South and we have provided long term financing options targeted at unlocking more land for agricultural production nationwide.
The Accelerated Agricultural Development Scheme (AADS) and the Private-Sector Led Accelerated Agricultural Development Scheme (P-AADS) were established to address this concern for the State Government and Private Sector players respectively.
The provision of other farm related infrastructure like irrigation facilities, rural access road, mechanization services, logistics and post-harvest handling activities can be accommodated under these interventions” he stated.
He also said if farmers pay their loans, the CBN could intervene in more areas thus urging the farmers who benefited from the loans to pay back.
“Loan repayment is the hallmark of every credit cycle and the sustainability of the programme is hinged on farmers’ ability and willingness to repay their loans, and we are constantly engaging with them to enhance their trust in the system.
The pyramids being unveiled today are harvests from the financed fields that have been submitted as part of loan repayment by farmers under the RIFAN-CBN programme.”
“To further create value and transfer these gains across the value chain, we have mapped rice millers to off-take the paddies, and we will track the release of their outputs to the market, as we strive to manage inflation and grow the rice value chain in Nigeria,” he said.
Emefiele also indicated that the commodity exchange will be revived to ensure price stability of commodities.
“In support of the growth recorded in this drive to attain self-sufficiency in food production and to moderate prices of agricultural commodities, Mr President has approved the resuscitation of the Nigeria Commodity Exchange (NCX).
“The CBN in partnership with other Stakeholders have committed N50bn to this exercise and we are hopeful that the “Revamped NCX” will commence operation by the 4th quarter of 2021.
“A vibrant commodity exchange will significantly enhance post-harvest handling, guarantee effective pricing for farmers, minimize the adverse effect of middlemen and commodity hoarders and ultimately transfer the gains from primary production to other nodes of the value chain.
“This aligns with our resolve to classify outputs from farms as assets for loan repayment, under the ABP.
High quality and verifiable output can also help to support market activity on the commodity exchange, as farmers can enter into credible supply contracts with off takers,” he explained.
In his comment at the Ekiti rice pyramid project, Governor Dr. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti state, said: “Rice has become the most consumed staple in Nigeria.
In the year 2018 alone, Nigeria imported 0.58 trillion worth of rice valued at $1.65 billion.
The present policy of support for local rice production by President Buhari has contributed immensely to food security in Nigeria.
“Considering the huge market and high population of Nigeria with the urgent need to eradicate poverty, it has successfully demonstrated the need to look inwards by taking advantage of the available fertile land, perennial river bodies and human resources for the production of rice.”
According to him, “one of the policies of the Federal Government towards encouraging agriculture is the CBN Anchor Borrowers Programme.
The programme was introduced on November 17, 2015 to enhance rice production.
The first two years of the programme (2015 to 2017) recorded significant increase in rice production with resultant decrease in rice importation.
For instance, rice importation from Thailand fell from 644,131 metric tonnes in September 2015 to 20,000 metric tonnes in September 2017, which accounts for a drop of over 90%.
“The success so far recorded was made possible because of the Anchor borrowers program introduced by the Federal government in conjunction with the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN) that has not only improved rice production but has also enhanced the quality through de-stoning.
It has also seen the increase in the number of local rice mills,” he stated.
He said the federal government disbursed money to the Anchor and in conjunction with the participating States, for land clearing, provision of seeds for planting, inputs such as knapsack sprayers, tube wells, pumping machines, ploughs, combined harvesters, rice milling machines and production lines, packaging were also provided.
Furthermore, analysis of the ABP programme indicates that funds provided at low interest made possible: easy access to rice farmers; economies of scale as large clusters of farmers are enlisted into the programme; enhanced the rice value chain in the form of finance to primary producers to processors – handlers – wholesalers – storage – marketing (branding) – export; improvement in farmers’ fortunes; and employment generation.
The others are food sufficiency, thereby banishing poverty and insecurity; generation of revenue as farmers will now pay taxes; and improvement in the economy as naira gains value.
He also noted that this ease of production of rice -the most valued staple in Nigeria- has been successfully practiced and celebrated in some states like Kebbi, Jigawa, Sokoto, Niger, Kwara, Ebonyi etc.
It is gratifying that today, Ekiti State is now joining the train as a participant in the Anchor Borrowers Programme of the CBN, in partnership with the National body of Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria led by Alhaji Goronyo.

Bode George describes Constitution review as a charade
Former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Olabode George, has described the ongoing constitutional review by the National Assembly as a charade.
He said “the unanimous position of the Nigerian people is the total overhaul of the present constitution”, adding, “Nothing else will do.”
According to him, a “genuine” remedy would be to revisit the report of the 2014 Constitutional Conference which he noted “has been generally applauded for the sweeping breadth of its equity and democratic balance in rectifying the prejudicial and unworkable structures that are on the ground now.”
In an open letter to the Senate President, George also faulted the process of the ongoing constitution review, especially the public hearing held last week, noting that many people “were deliberately denied the openness of democratic contributions.”
He said, “The hearing was stage-managed, anchored in prejudice, framed in puppeteering identification.
Alternative views were cast aside, flung into the pits.
This is not right.
This is not just.
“It is obvious that the Committee is not interested in true and thorough representation of the will of the Nigerian people.
It appears to be working with a script towards a predetermined end.
The contributions were narrow, overtly partisan, one-sided, lacking in plural contributory logic.
“This is not acceptable to the Nigerian people.
The structure of the present constitution is so biased, so flawed and so mangled with inequities that a mere review will not be sufficient to correct all the glaring wrongs afflicting the Nigerian state.”
The PDP leader said as a believer in the unity of the Nigerian state, he stated that the nation can “emerge stronger and better only when all the component units that make up our nation have a sense of belongingness and general accommodation regardless of tribe or sectarian belief, when everyone is treated equally without ethnic bias, when merit is the sole determinant of public positions.”
“This can only be achieved with a people’s constitution.
This is indeed what we should work for rather than the charade and the present jamboree that is chaired by Senator Ovie Omo – Agege.
“Enough of this false and misleading engagement.
Let’s renew our nation through the pursuit of the truth and the resolve on the fairness doctrine.
Their-in resides the national salvation,” he added.

A love letter to Mallam Nasir el-Rufa’i (I)
I had made up my mind to write to you openly before I saw the viral video by Dr Shadi Sabeh in which he appealed to you passionately to temper your actions with a “human face” with regard to the proposed sacking of 20,000 staff of the Kaduna State Government.
I do not quite agree with Dr Sabeh that people should be kept in service just to pay them as a social service.
Nigeria cannot afford that for now.
Our economy is not a 10th as developed as the US economy
was in the 1930s when it went through the Great Depression.
However, Dr Sabeh is right to the extent that Keynesianism is back world over and a government must necessarily think about the impact of its policies on the people it serves.
We know that in Nigeria, governments unfortunately do not believe they are here to serve the people, but it is our duty to work together to change that unfortunate misunderstanding and disconnection.
There are other issues coming up in Kaduna State presently.
Indeed, the state under your governance has again been mentioned as one of the best governed and we hear of your achievements in infrastructural development.
The dangers of travelling to Kaduna has hampered many of us from coming to see those achievements, but most people know that El-Rufai is a man of achievement and a stickler for standards.
The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) cannot forget you in a hurry.
Many people rue your absence as minister.
A lot more remember you in dread.
Unfortunately, many of the villages you cleared and many of the shanties you demolished are back – this time with a vengeance.
Why?
The governments over time have made no plans for these poor folks, and human beings – like water – must find their levels.
If you are flying into Abuja at any point in time, look down from the window of your aeroplane and you will see just how badly shanties have metastasized since you’ve been gone.
Any minister who will try and correct this anomaly will have millions of refugees on his hands.
In your time, it was 500,000 refugees we had.
As at 2006, Nigeria had the second highest number of displaced people in the world – after Iraq – due to your actions.
I recall writing to you then through my Daily Trust column, and appealing for the same thing that Dr Sabeh is now calling for; human face.
I quoted timeless Chinese wisdom by reminding you “If your vision is one year, cultivate flowers.
If it is 10, cultivate trees.
But if it is eternity, cultivate humans.”
The idea then was that you should go easy on you hard rhetoric that anyone earning less than N50,000 should return to their village, because Abuja is not for the poor.
You said this on national TV and it was most unfortunate and unfeeling.
It was perhaps the most bourgeoisie thing ever said by someone in office.
If anybody was to lay claim to Abuja as their inheritance, it should have been those Gwaris displaced from their ancestral land, many times without compensation.
At what point did Abuja become a playground/inheritance for the nouveau riche?
While we watched on TV in 2006, whole families displaced in the thick of the rainy season, with their mattresses on their heads and their little toddlers in their hands, we heard of stories of people who committed suicide because both their homes and their businesses were demolished same day.
I learnt from one lady, who acted as secretary to some of your meetings back then, how much you took delight in displacing those poor folks and that in one instance, the appeals from Drs Oby Ezekwesili and Okonjo-Iweala could not dissuade you and you were jokingly called a sadist even as you departed the meeting to go and have another demolition.
It sounded much like those folks in the south of the USA who used to take delight in ‘hanging themselves another negro’.
Kaduna not only has a bloated civil service (as is), but also a problem with indiscriminate building of all sorts of structures where they shouldn’t be – like everywhere else in Nigeria.
Abuja claims to have a ‘master plan’ which no one is supposed to see, thus making it a political plan not a geographical one.
Kaduna is NOT Abuja, and the people there may not have the mettle to withstand Hurricane Nasir, as we did here in Abuja up till 2007 under your iron grip.
You know you can easily get crazy once turned on.
You confess to this yourself.
You don’t care whose ox is gored and this can be a good attribute to turn around a country such as ours, but it could also be deadly to a great many poor folks, especially in a Kaduna which is basically an agrarian and civil service state.
Is there any compensation for example, for those whose houses and shops you will demolish?
Is anyone listening to their stories of how they came about the land or spaces or have they been told to go to hell and back?
Is it true that we should strive to achieve a glistening city in order to achieve accolades from far and near, not minding the human costs?
Should governance be calibrated solely to appeal to the whims and fancies of the monied class?
Look at Banana Island and Turnbull Street in Ikoyi.
The other day, the well-fed owners of properties there pushed a video wherein they filmed how their pristine space has been encroached by poor ‘invaders’.
They almost labeled the poor people as vermin.
The problem is not the ‘invaders’ but a lack of integrated, inclusive planning.
As educated as we claim to be, we choose not to learn the nuanced lessons from the places we visit abroad.
How can anyone think that the model of Banana Island will work forever when there is no provision for how the servants, drivers, gardeners and other ‘dregs of the earth’ who serve these Lords of the Manor will get around; how they will eat their lunch, how they will survive and sleep close to where they are supposed to resume at 4am every day?

Style and tech in 2021 Nissan Ariya
More auto firms are investing heavily in electric vehicle production described as the future of automobiles.
One of the recently revealed EV offerings is the Nissan Ariya.
This is a high-tech electric SUV with a 310-mile range.
It comes with styling that’s not changed dramatically from the 2019’s
concept car of the same name.
Nissan joined the SUVs market segment in 2016 with the launch of the Qashqai.
The company however in its latest statement, said the Ariya is “the ultimate expression of style and technology.”
Power and Range
Power comes from two electric motors, but their output, range and how many wheels they drive depends on which model you choose.
Even the entry-level two-wheel drive 63 kilowatts hour (kWh) model can take you 223 miles between charges and punts out 215bhp, though.
There’s an 87kWh version of the Ariya above that, with range increased to 310 miles and power boosted to 239bhp, and then versions of both cars with Nissan’s new e-4orce four-wheel drive system (and lower ranges consequently) too.
Then at the very top of the range sits the Ariya e-4orce 87kWh Performance, which offers up to 389bhp and a range of 248 miles.
In terms of charging, lower-powered versions of the Ariya include a 7.4kW charging cable, while the more powerful versions come with a 22kW three-phase charger.
The Ariya can also support charging up to 130kW.
The Ariya comes with a V-Motion grille which features a 3D pattern with the brand’s new logo that lightens up thanks to 20 LEDs.
For even more style, Nissan is offering six two-tone paint and four full-body colour combinations, among them the signature Copper paint.
A black roof is included with two-tone paint.
A set of sporty 19-inch aluminium wheels come standard and the 20-inches are optional.
Space and Price 
Two-wheel drive versions of the Ariya have 466 litres of space available in their boots enabling the user to pack more holiday luggage but the four-wheel drive versions of the Ariya have less space.
Within the interior, there are two large 12.3-inch displays for the infotainment screen and driver’s instrument gauge cluster.
It comes with Apple CarPlay, Android Auto, and Amazon Alexa.
The slim profile Zero Gravity seats help provide additional legroom for both front- and rear-seat passengers.
The Ariya’s EV platform made it easy for engineers to free up cabin space in unique ways, such as mounting the climate control system under the hood where a combustion engine would have been.
A transmission tunnel also isn’t necessary with EVs and the Ariya’s flat floor generates even more passenger and cargo space.

Verily it’s time to ask for help
In view of their accomplishments over the years, many readers would hardly come to terms with what had befallen the military in the last many years, particularly as it affects the fight against the Boko Haram insurgents, bandits and the insolent kidnappers.
Our military have had a distinguished record in the field starting in regional and international peace keeping.
At independence in 1960 when we joined the United Nations, we immediately started to contribute our armed forces personnel to peace keeping efforts.
Our troops were said to have acquitted themselves creditably in Congo 1960-64, Tanzania 1960-62 and Pakistan 1965-66.
By the time our civil war broke out in 1967 our troops have already had some fighting experience which probably came to help to crush a well-armed and determined secessionist movement in a mere 30 months.
Thereafter, this prowess of our troops made them very much sought-after by the United Nations whenever and wherever there was a conflict, to contribute to a peace keeping force and or international military observatories.
Our troops served everywhere.
In 1978 we were in Lebanon as part of UNFIL, Chad in 1981, along Iran-Iraq border UNIMOG in 1988, Kuwait UNICOM in 1991, Angola ‘91, Namibia ‘89, Cambodia ‘92, Yugoslavia ‘92, etc.
Of course nearer home in Sierra Leonne and Liberia, our troops and the resources Nigeria committed made the difference in those countries from falling apart or remaining intact.
In 2007 this country was in such a confident position in the ability of our Army as a can-do force that it voiced opposition to AFRICOM, a combatant command that USA created as an outfit to watch over Al Qaeda and other terrorists’ operations in Africa.
The USA had to back down from establishing the command post on an African soil, because Nigeria, South Africa and Libya voiced their loud opposition to the plan.
In fact, Nigeria was so belligerent in its opposition that the government spokesman said that we did not only reject AFRICOM on Nigeria’s soil but also would not want to see it in any African country.
The rejection was loud and clear and the US had to accede to let AFRICOM berth in Stuttgart, Germany where it had maintained other combatant commands, since the close of World War 2.
But honestly we must admit that things have turned awry for our armed forces in the last 10 or so years.
The fight against the Boko Haram armed insurgents has run into a quagmire.
Not only that but other forms of insurgencies have cropped up in the form of a wholesale flourishing kidnapping industry and other forms of banditry.
Nobody has been able to accurately pinpoint why the fight against the Boko Haram insurgents, whom many considered as a ragtag assemblage, has confounded our armed forces.
We thought our forces lacked material and the whole nation rose in unison to support the President when he wanted billions direct from the Federation Account to buy arms.
The money was drawn, spent and probably arms were bought but conditions merely deteriorated with the insurgency now precariously spreading across the nation.
That much was said by Governor Sani Bello when he warned that the Boko Haram fighters have raised their infamous flags in his domain and are within walking distance of Abuja the federal capital.
Mohammed Ali Ndume, the Senator representing Borno South has been everywhere in the media lately decrying the deficits in the war effort.
Senator Ndume should know, because he is the Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Army.
Vibrant and passionate, Ndume has never been short of words advancing the cause of his constituency that is presently besieged by Boko Haram insurgents.
He had put it plainly across that the entire armed forces lack the material to accomplish the myriad of assignments before them.
On top of that they lack the numbers required.
That would probably explain why despite their pedigree our armed forces are bogged down by a number of ragtag brigands.
To worsen matters, the casualties are rising by the day.
The gory statistics given a few days ago by Samuel Aruwan, Kaduna State Commissioner of Internal Affairs and Internal Security, are frightening enough.
He reported that in only three months between January and March 2021, bandits terrorising Kaduna State have killed 323 and abducted 949 citizens.
I guess similar figures might show up from neighbouring Katsina, Niger and Zamfara States if they kept statistics.
It is time for a change of heart to probably do what would have been unthinkable some years ago.
I am glad that the President has lately been won over to this argument.
This became evident when at a televised virtual meeting with the US Secretary of State Antony Blinken he specifically asked the US to reconsider relocating the US Africa Command (AFRICOM) from Stuttgart to Africa so as to bring it nearer to the theatre of operations and help to strengthen the ongoing efforts to check the security situation.
I watched the exchanges closely and clearly saw the President grimace when he came to the point in his speech where he asked the US to move AFRICOM to Africa.
It is the kind of surrender only Generals understand, as a painful duty to save a territory, fighting men and material.

42nd Kaduna fair: KADCCIMA strategises to develop economy
The Kaduna Chamber of Commerce Industry Mines and Agriculture (KADCCIMA) Monday organised a seminar to discuss strategies that will aid in the development of the nation’s economy through domestic production.
Speaking at the seminar on Monday as part of actives lined up for the ongoing 42nd Kaduna International Trade Fair with them, ‘Promoting Domestics Production to Mitigate the Current Economic Challenges’, the chairman of the occasion and the Managing Director of the Bank of Industry Lagos branch, Dr Aliyu Dikko, said there is no white-collar job anymore.
He, therefore, urged Nigerians especially the youth to embrace entrepreneurship as there are many opportunities in the private sector.
The Guest Speaker and Executive Chairman, Adhama Textiles and Garment Industries, Kano, Alhaji Sa’idu Dattijo Adhama assured that there are a lot of jobs in the private sector that will make one earn money.
Alhaji Adhama pointed that textile industries have faced major setbacks due to many challenges such as lack of electricity and advocated that Nigeria needs modern restructuring such as super restructuring to address the lingering challenges.
He there urged the government and the private sectors to look back and figure out where the problem emerged from so as to treat the problems and find a lasting solution.
The Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El-Rufai who was reported led by the Permanent Secretary, Kaduna State Ministry of Business, Innovation and Technology, Dr Haliru Musa Soba said the theme of the 42nd Trade Fair was apt as many businesses are still trying to survive from the setback poised from COVID-19 pandemic.
He said the ministry has established business clinics so as to attend to businesses by regularising businesses.

Akwa Utd reclaim top spot despite barren draw with Rangers
Akwa United yesterday played out a goalless with Enugu Rangers in Uyo in the 2021 Nigeria Professional Football League, NPFL week 22 fixture but reclaimed the top spot with superior goal difference.
On Sunday, Kano Pillars who were forced to 1-1 draw at Katsina United moved to the top of the table with 41 points while Akwa United who were yet to play Rangers came down to second position with 40 points.
Therefore, the draw in yesterday’s ill-tempered tie with Rangers returned the ‘Promise keepers’ to the top of the table with 41 points as Pillars who have inferior goal diference of plus 8 dropped to second position.
Going by the recent performance of Rangers which saw them suffer a 0-1 loss at home against Rivers United last Sunday, Akwa United were favoured to win the maximum points.
After a fruitless first half, Akwa United made triple substitutions in the 65th minute taking off Mfon Udoh, Ubong Friday and Ikechukwu Nwani for Nasiru Jibril, Wisdom Fernando and Ibrahim Abubakar Aliyu.
The introduction of the trio proved impactful as Akwa United turned the heat on Rangers defence as substitute Aliyu forced a save off Mutawakilu Seidu in the 66th minute.
Rangers also had their chance in the 80th minute when they were awarded a free kick at the arc after Dare Ojo fouled Ibrahim Olawoyin but Kelvin Itoya fired it straight at Akwa United’s wall.
The visitors then ended the match with 10-men following the marching order to their Ivorian import, Issif Traore who fouled Charles Atshimene at the edge of the box.
The resultant free kick in added time was wasted by Olisa Ndah who shot wide from close range.

As access to fertiliser dims… Farmers devise means of generating manure from neem
As the hope of getting government’s subsidised fertiliser this farming season dims further, some farmers in Jigawa State have adopted the technique of turning neem leaves into fertiliser.
The farmers, especially those in Maigatari Local Government Area, said they decided to shift attention towards using local methods of enriching their soils for better productivity as a result of the spike in the price of inorganic fertilisers.
NPK fertiliser now costs over N12,000 per 50kg bag in the open market, and the usually subsidised ones by the federal government which usually sold for N5,500 may not be feasible this year.
The Minister of Agriculture, Mohammed Sabo Nanono, had said that the federal government would, from this year, hands off buying and selling of fertiliser but would play a supervisory role.
Many stakeholders have interpreted the minister’s stand to mean government’s withdrawal of fertiliser subsidy, thereby leaving farmers with no option than to buy from the open market.
With the onset of the rainy season in many parts of the country, farmers are now forced to source for manure by any means.
This seems to be the major reason for the new innovation among the Jigawa farmers.
How farmers use neem leaves for manure
Neem leaves that fall from the tree are heaped by the farmers and put in gutters and drains and left to decompose.
One of the farmers said the decomposed leaves are brought out for drying before they are finally taken to the farm.
Scores of farmers in the town agreed that although the practice caused blockage of their drains, it had appreciable impacts on their soil.
Mallam Imrana Adamu, a farmer in Maigatari, said he had been into the practice for some time now and was satisfied with the way the compost was helping him maintain the fertility of his soil.
But unlike some farmers in the town who use drains in carrying out the process, Mallam Imrana said he used his premises in composting the organic fertiliser.
He said, “I mix the dried neem leaves with ash, sprinkle water on the mixture and allow the process to take its course.
I can assure you that this is very effective in enriching the soil.
I have practised it and seen positive result; I am still practising it.”
On the efficacy and effectiveness of this practice, Dr Yunusa Muhammad Shuaibu, a lecturer with the Department of Crop Production, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi, said the practice was a form of composting that sped up mineralisation and consequently enriched the soil by supplying nutrients such as phosphorus and calcium to it.
Rilwan, a corps member, contributed this piece from Jigawa State.

Pinnick inaugurates NFF Technical and Development Committee
The president of the Nigeria Football Federation, Mr Amaju Pinnick on yesterday inaugurated the Technical and Development of the federation, with a charge to the members to constantly dig deep into their pouch of quality knowledge and experience to steer Nigeria Football to higher levels of excellence.
“Each and every member of this special committee was appointed based on track record and wealth of experience.
The NFF has high confidence in you and your ability to enhance the technical prowess of our National Teams by fashioning brilliant and workable policies.
“Without any gainsaying, the Technical and Development Committee is the engine room of the NFF.
We know what you can contribute individually and collectively to uplift the standard of the Nigeria game.
“On our part, we will give all the support you need to succeed in this mission,” Alh.
Ibrahim Musa Gusau, Chairman of Chairmen who represented Mr Pinnick, said at the inauguration in Abuja.
The committee has as Chairman, Alhaji Ahmed Yusuf Fresh, with Chief Felix Anyansi-Agwu as Vice Chairman.
Members are Etubom Paul Bassey, Alhaji Aminu Balele Kurfi, Barr.
Isaac Danladi, Alhaji Dahiru Sadi, Mr Victor Ikpeba and Alhaji Mutiu Adepoju.
The NFF Technical Director, Mr Austin Eguavoen is the Secretary.

Understanding Nigeria’s democracy, dictatorship and spirit of nationalism in Chad
Khalid Yusuf Tebo
The operation of political parties in democracy is systematic, flexible and elastic when compared with political parties outside democracy.
However, political parties in democratic states are distinctive with those in non-democratic states, especially by their mode of operations.
Sometimes, they share partial similarities and roles.
Yet, the roles of those in democracy are not distinguishable from advocating transparency, accountability, integrity and quality of choosing representatives in favour of national interest.
Nevertheless, in Nigeria, Buhari is the president and commander-in-chief of the armed forces.
He had to go through a rigorous democratic political party’s process before he would emerge victorious in pre-primary, primary and post primary elections.
As a member of a political party, he is like any other member and possesses no legal proceedings to influence the serving governor, serving senator and member house of reps under the impression of the same political party in democracy as far as good governance is the matter of the day.
This has to do with a party’s political exercise in ruling over the affairs of its members when the need arises.
Contrastingly, Buhari’s participation in decision making is minimal compared to the late Déby of Chad because of their political system differences and leadership modus operandi.
Buhari is less sensitive in governance, less powerful over some national affairs and less effective legislatively.
Not like Déby who was more sensitive, very powerful and strong because of his non-democratic identity and political ideology.
Moreover, the edge of governance in Chad is said to have self-centered features without collective effort made by the people who are being ruled.
In fact, the system accommodates a larger portion of corruption and manipulation of single interest, meanwhile silencing the voices of its members during political discourse, public opinions and decision making.
For the sake of democracy and a sense of nationalism in Nigeria, no one can or will  personally decide to do anything between executive, legislature and judiciary
no matter how patriotic someone is.
One must act according to the constitutional guidelines as well as passing his ideas to the three tiers of government for critique, suggestions and support.
For instance, If Buhari is eager to die in the battlefield; he must first identify the legality of sacrificing his life constitutionally as a president of Nigeria who wants to fight Boko Haram in favour of national interest.
He must understand his eligibility politically and democratically before he pays the price.
Anyway, Nigeria is not like Chad; here, we operate democracy not militarism and dictatorship.
In Chad, Déby adopted a political party in a unitary system of government that is linked to dictatorship.
By the way, the system he enjoyed deliberately lacked “check and balance” if compared with the bicameral legislature.
If you may recall, the Déby’s political party is “Patriotic Salvation Movement”; the party is built on a spirit of nationalism and the aim is to produce patriotic mindsets with sophisticated ideology and spiritual high sense of nationalism.
Astonishingly!
Déby remained one; and he answered the clarion call of his party, MPS.
A true nationalist indeed!
Khalid Yusuf Tebo writes from Yobe.

Why we must address food price instability – CBN
The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has warned that its economic and financial policies would amount to nothing if the issues around food prices volatility could not be addressed as a nation.
The governor of the apex bank, Mr Godwin Emefiele, made this remark in a message to the input distribution flag-off and loan recovery drive under the RIFAN-CBN Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP).
Emefiele, whose message was delivered by Mr Edward Adamu, CBN’s Deputy Governor, Corporate Services, noted that “With a population of about 200 million people, importation of any major food item will continually drain the country’s external reserves, export our jobs to countries where those food items are produced and distort our commodity value chains as we will not be able to guarantee the supply of raw materials for the agro-allied companies.’’
The CBN governor, who stressed the commitment of the present administration to attain self-sufficiency in rice production by the end of 2020 dry season, noted that the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme has proven to be a game-changer in the financing of smallholder farmers in Nigeria as it has revolutionised agricultural financing and remained the fulcrum of the country’s agricultural transformation initiatives.
He said the programme, beyond being a tool for economic empowerment, job creation and wealth redistribution, has also galvanised financial inclusion in rural communities.
On loan recovery, Emefiele said despite the devastation caused by numerous flood incidents in the 2018 wet season, farmers have been submitting produce and cash as part of their loan repayment but pleaded with the association to intensify efforts in that regard in the spirit of the partnership and sustainability of the programme.
The CBN governor said beyond rice, the Commodity Association Window has been expanded to cover more commodities like maize, cassava, sorghum, soybean, ginger etc and hoped that the efforts would contribute to the national aggregates and galvanise its drive to economic diversification.

We all can be forces for good in the space of gender equality
Femi Adeyomo
It is an undisputed fact that for the most part of history, women have not enjoyed equal rights.
Only several decades back, the general belief surrounding women’s roles were restricted to duties at home, childbearing, and work in “the kitchen.”
This perception brought a tremendous amount of disregard and prejudice against women, not only at the family and community level, but glaring misrepresentations and stereotypical portrayals in mainstream media.
Above all, women were prohibited from important decision-making, leadership positions; access to higher education and professional aspiration.
Perhaps one of the most notable shifts in the movement for women’s rights was the Women’s Strike for Equality on August 26, 1970.
The strike took place in the United States to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the passing of the 19th Amendment, which effectively gave women in America the right to vote.
About 50,000 women gathered for the protest, and at that time, it was noted to be the largest gathering on behalf of women in history.
The strike had specific goals, including equal opportunity in the workforce and free child care.
Today, it is viewed as a movement responsible for political rights for women, social equality in relationships and income equality in the United States and all over the world.
In Nigeria, gender inequality has heavily pervaded society.
Women constitute about 49.33 per cent of the Nigerian population, approximately 99.13 million in total.
However, female participation in formal and informal structures, processes and key decision making remains insignificant.
This is largely because of discriminatory social norms, marginalization and economic disparity, which dictates the lives of women in Nigeria.
According to NOI Polls, which sought to identify socio-economic challenges faced by women, the results revealed that 42 per cent lacked financial empowerment, 35 per cent were poor, 33 per cent lacked access to quality education , 19 per cent had experienced domestic and sexual abuse, and 17 per cent faced gender discrimination in employment.
However, recent developments in Nigeria and across the globe, are proof that things are changing.
A few years ago, if you had told people that a woman would hold executive positions in organizations or political institutions, many would have shown disbelief.
On March 1, 2021, Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, a Nigerian political figure and economist, became the first woman and first African to serve as the Director-General of the World Trade Organization, a landmark achievement for women and Africans all over the world.
This victory, and many others, have become a clear sign that female empowerment, equality, and leadership are necessary to foster positive change in society.
We need all hands on deck to close gender gaps.
“We have made great progress on gender equality and we can’t allow it to be eroded.
We need to act now to ensure that while we continue responding to the health and economic crisis, we find ways to progress women’s economic empowerment and equality, in education, in the home and in the workplace.
At P&G, we will keep using the voice of our company in forums such as #WeSeeEqual to drive discussion and action on the issues that matter.”
Those were the words of Adil Farhat, the Managing Director of Procter & Gamble Nigeria, during the company’s flagship gender equality summit, #WeSeeEqual Summit, in partnership with the UNWomen.
During the summit, Dr Zainab Bagudu, the First Lady of Kebbi State described the #WeSeeEqual Summit as an inspiring platform to motivate change in Nigeria towards gender inequality, stating the importance of collaboration between private and public institutions in the fight against gender inequality.
It is important for individuals and organizations to recognize that we can all be forces for good in the space of gender equality.
Our combined efforts as citizens, neighbours and humans will ensure that the opportunities and resources needed to secure and preserve gender equality.
We need new, radical collaborations that don’t just focus on the financial sources, but bring together all partners at the start.
Looking at the 70s, 80s and even a large part of the 90s, it can be said that there is now a significant improvement in reducing gender inequalities in Nigeria, no denying that we are still well behind it.
When you look at the 17 action points of the Sustainable Development Goals, which is the most comprehensive global roadmap to shared human progress, it is impossible to overlook the centrality of its call for gender equality and reducing inequalities.
Indeed, it is improbable that the world could attain significant success in almost any action area of the SDGs – from ensuring quality health care, education and sanitation for all to reducing poverty, ending hunger, providing productive employment or enabling strong institutions – without achieving strongly in gender equality and reducing inequalities.
Private organisations must play their part in facilitating gender equality.
Also, there is the need for everyone to take up space and amplify gender equality, to secure a better future for all women.
Mr Femi writes from Lagos

EU leaders sign Brexit deal as UK MPs debate ratification
European Union leaders have signed have their post-Brexit trade deal with Britain and dispatched it to London on an RAF jet Wednesday, setting their seal on a drawn-out divorce just hours before the UK brings its half-century European experiment to an end.
EU chiefs Ursula von der Leyen and Charles Michel, the heads of the European Commission and European Council, smiled at a brief televised ceremony to put their names to the 1,246-page Trade and Cooperation Agreement.
“It has been a long road.
It’s time now to put Brexit behind us.
Our future is made in Europe,” von der Leyen said.
Britain will leave the European single market and customs union at 11:00pm (2300 GMT) on Thursday, the end of a difficult year and of a post-Brexit transition period marked by intense and tortuous trade negotiations.
But first the hefty document, bound in blue leather, was flown by the Royal Air Force to London for Prime Minister Boris Johnson to add his signature, as the UK parliament began a rushed debate on the deal before the looming deadline.
Introducing the legislation to ratify it, Johnson told lawmakers it heralded “a new relationship between Britain and the EU as sovereign equals, joined by friendship, commerce, history, interests and values”.
“With this bill we are going to be a friendly neighbour, the best friend and ally the EU could have,” he said.
London and Brussels would work “hand in glove whenever our values and interests coincide, while fulfilling the sovereign wish of the British people to live under their own sovereign laws made by their own sovereign parliament”, he added.
Anxious wait
Michel echoed the sentiment in Brussels, vowing the two sides would work “shoulder to shoulder” on major issues, including climate change and future health pandemics.
Johnson’s government only published the accompanying UK legislation on Tuesday afternoon, less than 24 hours before the debate began in parliament and an hour after the EU signing.
The government intends to ram all stages of the 85-page European Union (Future Relationship) Bill through the Commons and the House of Lords in one day, before Queen Elizabeth II formally signs it into law.
The last-ditch deal averted the prospect of a cliff-edge separation which would have seen quotas and tariffs slapped on all cross-Channel trade, exacerbating strains in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic, which has hit Britain harder than most.
But British fishermen have accused the government of selling them out, while services — accounting for 80 percent of the UK economy — were largely omitted.
The City of London faces an anxious wait to learn on what basis it can continue dealing with Europe in the future.
Theresa May, whose three-year Brexit-dominated premiership ended in 2019 after she failed to win support for a closer future relationship with the bloc, voiced her unease at the agreement.
“We have a deal in trade which benefits the EU, but not a deal in services which would have benefited the UK,” she told MPs.
Thin deal
The legislation is set to pass, however, after an influential faction of arch-Brexiteers in Johnson’s
ruling Conservatives gave their blessing to the EU agreement on Tuesday, and the main opposition Labour party signalled its reluctant backing.
Despite misgivings among some of his own MPs, who plan to abstain or vote against the agreement, Labour leader Keir Starmer said neutrality was not an option given the stakes for Britain.
“This is a thin deal, it’s got many flaws, but a thin deal is better than no deal,” Starmer told MPs.
Lawmakers from the pro-European Liberal Democrats and Scottish National Party (SNP) said they would vote against it — with the SNP using the issue to push for a fresh referendum on independence for Scotland.
“The only way to regain the huge benefits of EU membership is to become an independent state at the heart of Europe once more,” its leader in the UK parliament, Ian Blackford, said.
The agreement’s impact will play out in the coming months, with UK businesses braced for customs red tape they have avoided for decades in cross-Channel trade.
Meanwhile from January 1, there will no longer be free movement of people from Britain to the EU or vice versa.
Under the compressed legislative calendar, the European Parliament will debate the Brexit deal after the New Year, but they are expected to eventually nod it through.
Pending that, EU member states gave their green light on Monday for the accord to take provisional effect before Thursday’s deadline.
(AFP)

FG launches new national policy on virtual meeting
The Federal Government on Monday formally launched the national policy on virtual engagements in public institutions.
It also commissioned an Emergency Communications Centre and four more digital economy centres across the country.
The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, who launched the new policy and commissioned the projects virtually in Abuja, said the paradigm shift to virtual engagements in official circles globally, occasioned by the COVID 19 pandemic, necessitated the need for a policy to give legal impetus to the practice in public institutions.
“The policy which was approved by the Federal Executive Council on the 14th of October, 2020 was developed in collaboration with the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation”, Pantami said.
He said that the policy would “institutionalise frameworks and standards within Ministries, Departments and Agencies of governments as well as
government -owned companies using virtual engagement as an administrative procedure in service and significantly reduce the cost of governance”.
He said in line with the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy, the facilities commissioned under the auspices of the National Information Technology Development Agency and the Nigerian Communications Commission would enhance security, create digital jobs, promote knowledge-based economic growth, increase productivity and enhance commercial and administrative methods.
He said all “digital economy projects are carefully thought out and executed efficiently with a view to ensure the sustainable growth of Nigeria’s digital economy”.

Activists fight dirty over ‘mismanagement of millions’ meant for Odumakin’s burial
The controversy over the burial funds of late activist, Mr. Yinka Odumakin, deepened on Thursday as the memorial committee slammed members of the accountability committee over alleged mismanagement of N10 million raised for the burial.
The committee described the accountability committee members as “self-seeking infiltrators masquerading as Civil Society Activists”.
Daily Trust reports that a few days after the burial of Odumakin in Ife Moro, Osun State, some members of the burial committee questioned the management of the funds.
The burial took place on April 24.
They subsequently set up an accountability committee known as Odumakin Accountability Resolution Committee which indicted the Memorial Planning Committee (MPC) and asked it to refund N7.9m to Odumakin family.
But reacting to the accountability committee report, Comrade Awa Bamiji of the Civil Society and Pro-Democracy Movement Memorial Initiative, 2021, dismissed the allegations.
He warned members of the accountability committee to desist from “their divisive reactionary orchestration of disaffection within the movement or be ready to face the wrath of the majority and genuine Leaders and Elders of the Civil Society Movement.”
He described one Declan Ihekaire as one of the key actors behind the issue, alleging that Ihekaire specifically requested and collected N20,000 to fuel his personal car to and from Osun State.
Allegation of illegal disbursement of N5m
He also accused others of cornering and sharing N5m, saying this is part of the evidence already compiled with the help of their Legal Associates.
“To this end, we have already instructed our legal advisers to approach the Law Court immediately to press charges of willful defamation, Obtaining by Force under duress and Physical Assault against them and their cohorts at large if they continue in their nefarious and malicious ways of unprovoked assault and smear campaign dubbed as resolutions of their dubious accountability gang.
“As the conscience of the country, the leadership of the Civil Society and Pro – Democracy Movement hereby vehemently condemns, disowns and distances itself from the divisive activities of these bunch of pretenders and Infiltrators who are of no significant reputation and scruples.”
When contacted yesterday, Comrade Ihekaire said Awa Bamiji who signed the statement should be arrested.
He said he was brought into the committee as a sub-committee member
and he was never part of any meeting held by the Memorial Committee where issues of the disbursement of funds were raised.
Ihekaire noted that many people were shut out of the platform because the committee didn’t want to give account of the funds received.
He said some of them opened “Odumakin Real Accountability Platform” and added Awa Bamiji and Comrade Wale Okunniyi
but they left.
But he stated that the committee did their work and found out they actually embezzled N7m plus.
“They have gone begging people to give them soft landing and the committee members are saying, no, we are not backing down.
We are going to address a press conference on this.”
He also said he was not moved by the threat of legal action against him even as he dismissed the allegation of cornering N5m.
“He had threatened that earlier and now petitions have been written against them to the EFCC, Force CID and people have been begging on their behalf.
We have to call those that have been begging on their behalf that they have not shown any remorse.
“I have just told you the truth and nothing but the truth.
We need to sanitize civil society.
They should just feel remorse and come out to say we are sorry.
It was even suggested that they should be ostracized from the activities of civil society,” he said.
Attempt to implicate Odumakin family
The accountability committee later issued another statement, saying the claim made by Bamiji was an unsubstantiated story designed to implicate Odumakin family.
It insisted that the sum of N9.3m out of N9.9m raised by the committee was blown on burial jamboree.
On the N5m alleged to have been cornered, it said, “The only place where the sum of N5m was mentioned is in the budget itself and was listed as donation by the Lagos State Government towards the burial of late Comrade Yinka Odumakin.
“Other South West Governors of  Ekiti and Osun States made donations of a  staggering N1, 000,000.00k and N2.500.000.00k respectively for the same purpose.
Details of the income and expenditures analysis as submitted by Wale Okunniyi and Awa Bamiji, shall be affixed here under for our perusal.
“Meanwhile, the total amount donated by three (3) South West Governors, (N8.5m naira only in total) was all listed as part of the total money lavishly wasted on frivolous expenses, multiple charges for same items, heavily padded relevant and irrelevant materials, overloading and highly overcharged provisions for non existing expenditures
etc..
That is,  if there was any at all, the statement added.

UPDATED: Bayern win ninth Bundesliga title in a row
Bayern Munich have been confirmed as Bundesliga champions for the ninth straight season Saturday after England winger Jadon Sancho netted twice in Borussia Dortmund’s 3-2 win over second-placed RB Leipzig.
The result in Dortmund meant Bayern become champions before their home game against Borussia Moenchengladbach on Saturday evening.
England winger Jadon Sancho netted twice in Dortmund’s home win which crowned Bayern as champions without kicking a ball before their home game against Borussia Moenchengladbach later on Saturday.
Before they even kick off, Bayern have an unassailable 71 points to Leipzig’s 64.
“I don’t think anyone has ever become champions before while in the team bus on the way to the stadium!”
Dortmund head coach Edin Terzic said in congratulating Bayern.
Julian Nagelsmann, the 33-year-old coach who will leave RB Leipzig to take over at Bayern next season, offered a terse “congratulations on a deserved title” to his future employers.
The victory lifted Dortmund into the Champions League places, but Eintracht Frankfurt can knock them out of fourth place if they beat Mainz on Sunday.
Even without star striker Erling Braut Haaland, Dortmund were 2-0 up at the start of the second half thanks to goals from Marco Reus and Sancho.
Leipzig fought back with a Lukas Klostermann header before Dani Olmo equalised only for Sancho to grab the winner with superb footwork.
The clubs meet again on Thursday in the German Cup final at Berlin’s Olympic Stadium.
“We showed a lot of morale, the game had absolutely nothing to do with the final in Berlin, but of course we want to win on Thursday too,” said goal-scorer Reus.
Dortmund hope to have Haaland back from a thigh injury before the cup final and even with their top-scorer watching in the stands, the hosts still raced into the lead after only seven minutes.
Reus span out of Lukasz Piszczek’s pass, sprinted behind the defence and took a beautiful back-heeled ball from Thorgan Hazard before sweeping his shot past Leipzig goalkeeper Peter Gulacsi.
Dortmund goalkeeper Marwin Hitz did not come out for the second half after being injured colliding with his centre-back Manuel Akanji just before the break and was replaced by Roman Buerki.
Dortmund doubled their lead just six minutes after the break with a superb piece of skill from Sancho, who cut back inside after a Raphael Guerreiro pass and fired his shot in off the far post with superb accuracy.
The visitors pulled a goal back on 63 minutes when Emil Forsberg floated in a corner and Lukas Klostermann steered his header past Buerki.
Leipzig drew level when South Korea striker Hwang Hee-chan broke clear of Dortmund defender Mats Hummels and squared for Olmo who tapped home from close range.
However, Sancho grabbed the winner when he flicked the ball to Guerreiro, took a return pass and tapped home to hand Bayern the title.
(AFP)

Ndidi, Iheancho’s Leicester City win first FA Cup after Tielemans’ screamer
Youri Tielemans struck a sensational winner to clinch Leicester City their first FA Cup in a 1-0 victory over Chelsea on Sunday, in front of 21,000 fans at Wembley – with Ben Chilwell’s 89th-minute effort ruled out by VAR for offside.
It was the biggest gathering of supporters inside a stadium since the coronavirus pandemic began – and they were treated to incredible drama in the 140th FA Cup final.
Leicester fans had the perfect view as Tielemans fired a brilliant shot into the top corner of the goal at their end on 63 minutes.
It was a goal worthy of winning any final and capped a superb performance from the Belgian.
It had been a game of few clear chances up until that point but Kasper Schmeichel was then forced into two fantastic saves at the other end, pushing a Chilwell header onto the post and then pulling off another wonderful stop to deny Mason Mount, as Chelsea desperately searched for a response.
Former Leicester defender Chilwell thought he’d done just that, when Caglar Soyuncu’s clearance went in off him, but VAR rightly spotted the Chelsea man had strayed marginally offside in the build-up.
Leicester, who lost key defender Jonny Evans to injury midway through the first half, held on and, 52 years after their last appearance in a FA Cup final, were able to hold the trophy aloft for the first time, adding another remarkable chapter to their story, following their 2015/16 Premier League triumph.

Pakistan blocks social media amid anti-France protests
Pakistan on Friday blocked social media platforms amid fears that activists of a radical Islamist group might use the technology to stoke violent protests against last year’s depiction of the Prophet Muhammad in France.
Followers of far-right Tehreek-e-Labaik Pakistan (TLP), a group that supports the country’s controversial blasphemy laws, have blocked roads and chocked streets at deadly protests that started on Monday.
The protesters were demanding that the government fulfill an earlier promise to expel the French ambassador by April 20, over the publication of a cartoon depicting the prophet last year.
At least five people including two police officers have been killed in the protests, which have prompted the France embassy in Islamabad to urge French nationals to leave Pakistan temporarily.
“Social media has been blocked for a few hours so that troublemakers cannot use it during Friday prayers congregations,” an official told dpa.
Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, WhatsApp and TikTok are inaccessible across the country, including the capital Islamabad.
Political parties, Islamist groups and militant organisations like Pakistani Taliban heavily rely on social media platforms to connect with their followers.
(dpa/NAN)

How young farmer grew 350 chickens into N750m farm
Popularly called “Farmer in Suit,” his story tells how hard work, innovation, passion and determination can make one break away from the loop of poverty.
The story of Usman Ali Lawan, who also suffered from daunting challenges confronting most Nigerian youths, is an inspiration for others.
Last week, our reporter visited Lawan’s farm on the outskirts of Keffi, Nasarawa State, and his story explained his journey so far.
After his first degree in Business Administration from the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, and a stint in oil and gas, Lawan used his savings to go for a master’s degree in Energy Studies in the United Kingdom (UK), with the hope that a job would be waiting for him whenever he returned home; but that did not happen.
“I was broke, broken, homeless and indebted.
It was hard to look for a good job, so I started applying for every opening.
“Within the first six months after my return from the UK, I applied for 500 jobs in Nigeria.
I crashed into every office, whether they had an opening or not, and whether they put out an advert or not.
I asked people for help.
I was looking for any job,” he said.
Within the period of joblessness, this grandson of a peasant farmer remembered that he could actually do something in agriculture.
“That was when I started making efforts and preparing myself to become a farmer.
“And I wanted to be a farmer that would be able to support other smallholder farmers to engage in sustainable and profitable farming.
“That was what informed the establishment of my farm, USAIFA Agro-Allied Limited, which started operations on April 3, 2013, with 350 birds,” he narrated.
Today, the farm’s capacity has grown from 350 birds to 28,000.
On fishery, it has the capacity for 100,000 of 1.5kg fish, 45 tonnes of processed fish and 200,000 fingerlings monthly.
Facilities for goat farming, heliciculture (snails) and cuniculture (rabbits) are under construction.
The farm has modern meat and fish processing facilities, with substantial structures for offices, feed mills, meeting rooms, cold room and a warehouse.
The farm has developed a circle where the waste product of one process serves as an input for another.
For instance, when the poultry and fish use feed, all the wastes from them are collected and used to make organic fertiliser.
“By this, we ensure that every waste product on the farm is used as input for another process to create an ecosystem where waste is reduced to the barest minimum,” Lawan explained.
Lawan also has another plan for the farm: “We are now not only a commercial farm but also an agri-business institute so that other young farmers will be able to have access, not only to see how a farm works but also learn and be able to have the knowledge they need.”
When asked the worth of the farm, he said, “We did evaluation recently and the business as a whole is valued at a little over N700million.
The assets and the facilities are valued at N350m.
Of course when you put the goodwill, our experience, brand, all the validation, and of course, our turnover in the last seven or eight years, plus the projected turnover in the next five years, then the business is valued at N750m.”
He further said, “Money is important in business, but I never actually saw it as a key driver because I knew from the beginning that if I put that in mind I would not be able to go far.
That you think you need money to do everything
and you don’t have
it is a spirit killer.
Entrepreneurship is a lonely journey, so you don’t want anything that will discourage you.
You want to be able to keep moving.
So I thought my snag for problem-solving was the most important factor and hinged on that.
I tried to look at alternative means of getting money.”
Although he did not get funding from any bank, he was able to use other means like bootstrapping.
He explained, “Bootstrapping simply means using the resources you have to create something of value – whether it is getting invoice sales from suppliers or advance payment from customers.
Those are some of the methods we use to be able to make sure our cash flow stays strong.
And we are able to grow the business, but most importantly, leverage on fellowships and grant opportunities.”
In the next 10 years, Lawan wants to have a 10,000-hectare farm estate for growing maize, soybeans and groundnut, to prove to young people that they can actually make a living and decent income from farming.
“You can wear a suit in a farm instead of the banking hall,” he said.

Nigeria to partner Egypt for youth and sports development
The Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare has said Nigeria will partner with Egypt to explore areas of mutual benefits for youth and sports development.
The Minister who made this known yesterday on the sidelines of the 
General Assembly of the Association of National Olympics Committee of Africa, ANOCA, in Cairo reiterated the fact that sports plays key role in international relations as well as unity and youth empowerment.
“As two pacesetters on the continent, the youths of Nigeria and Egypt can get a lot of mileage, if we explore areas that are mutually beneficial to us.
“This meeting is quite timely because it is coming at a time we are preparing for the Olympics,” said Dare.”
Responding, Egypt’s Minister of Youth and sports Development, Professor Ashraf Sobhy said at lot can be achieved, if youths are properly mobilised using sports.
“The future lies in our Youths, so they must be properly trained to meet the challenges of a new world order,” he said.
Dare also seized the opportunity to introduce the DEEL, which is a digital skills programme, assuring that the two countries could collaborate to benefit from the initiative.

Food security: Expert canvases urban farming
The country coordinator, Open Forum for National Biotechnology in Africa, Nigeria chapter, Dr Rose Gidado, has appealed to the federal government to promote urban agriculture to mitigate food scarcity.
Gidado, a deputy director, National Biotechnology Development Agency, Abuja, made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos.
She said urban agriculture would address issues surrounding insecurity in many parts of the country.
Gidado said that “hydroponics, aeroponics and aquaponics’’ were all new urban agriculture techniques that should be promoted.
She said greenhouse farming technology should be promoted to boost food production and self-sufficiency.
According to her, hydroponics is a technology for growing plants in nutrient solutions that supply all nutrient elements needed for optimum plant growth.
“It is done with or without the use of an insert medium, such as gravel, vermiculite, rock wool, peat moss, sawdust, coir dust and coconut fiber.
“Aeroponics is an innovative technique of misting the roots, which are suspended in the air, with hydroponic solution.
Plants are supported by tailor made holes in Styrofoam panels.
“Aquaponics means raising fish and plants in the same water source.
The fish actually provide the fertiliser for the plants and the plant roots filter the water for the fish.
“Greenhouse is a type of farming in which crops are cultivated under protected and enclosed environment.
“Its advantage is to keep out pests and diseases.
It also has a comparable yield advantage to open filed cultivation of crops.
“Urban agriculture will enable people practise farming within their homes and environment, thereby increasing food production.
“We have urban agriculture, and it should be promoted by the government.
Urban agriculture will mitigate against issues of herdsmen, Boko Haram, banditry and the likes.
“All we need is to promote urban agriculture.
People need to be taught how to farm on top of their rooftops, in containers and polythene bags,” she said.
(NAN)

Sallah: Edo traders make brisk business
Despite the economic downturn occasioned by COVID-19, traders at the Benin Eid praying ground along the Benin-Auchi Road made brisk business as Muslims celebrated Sallah.
The traders who sold caps, clothing, mats, beverages and other items said business was good and that they did not regret coming to the area to sell their items.
One of the traders, Muhammed Kabir, said he made good money within a short period.
Kabir, who sells prayer garments (jallabiya), said, “Within a short period I sold 10 pieces of them.
This was what I usually battled to sell in a day.”
Another trader, Abdullaihi Abubakar, who sells caps, said, “If every other day were today, I would never complain of a bad market.
“Today is an Eid day and people do come to the prayer ground without caps, so I seized the opportunity to make good business.
Before the commencement of the prayers, I sold 17 caps which ranged from N1,500 to N3,000.”
According to him, he barely managed to sell 10 caps any other day, adding that he would have money to celebrate the Sallah.
On an ordinary day, I manage to sell 20 caps or so, he said.
On his part, Musa Koro who sells mats thanked Allah for the Eid el-Fitr, saying, “I made good sales today.
Many worshippers didn’t come to the prayer ground with mats, so they ended up buying from us.
I made a profit of over N5,000 within a short period.”
Many other traders such as ice cream, sachet water and beverages sellers said the market was good and that they were smiling home.
They had also wished the Sallah would be every day for their businesses to thrive with such a high rate of turnover.

CBN tasked on funding road transport dev’t
The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, have been tasked on creating a special intervention fund to develop road transportation infrastructure.
Speaking on Monday at the Nigeria Transportation Commissioners’ Forum and Federal Ministry of Transportation Annual Retreat 2021, the Minister of State, Transportation, Sen. Gbemisola Saraki, said, “We understand the difficulties involved in accessing funding, especially given the high-interest rate regime.
We are exploring with the CBN and the Ministry of Finance an intervention fund dedicated to the road transport sector similar to what obtains for Aviation and other sectors of the economy.”
She also said the ministry with relevant stakeholders are working to have an environmentally sustainable transport sector.
She also said the ministry is aggressively promoting the use of technology within the road transport sector.
The minister also said the NITT this year embarked on a National Transport Databank project, which will be the beginning of developing our national intelligent transport infrastructure.
The acting Chairperson of Transportation Commissioner’s Forum, Rahmatu Mohammed Yar’adua said the Forum was necessary due to the need to effectively implement various resolutions of the National Council on Transportation, coupled with the desire to coordinate activities of various groups of the Nigerian Transport Sector.
She also said there is a need to adopt technology in road transport operations to reduce accidents.

Why Nigeria must adopt proposed dairy policy – Agric minister
The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Muhammad Sabo Nanono, has said that high dependence on imported dairy products necessitated the urgent need for farmers to adopt the proposed diary policy when implemented.
During a stakeholders meeting organized by Sahel Consulting through the Advancing Local Dairy Development in Nigeria (ALDDN), Nanono noted that with 60 per cent of the dairy products consumed in the country imported, the proposed dairy policy would unlock the sector’s potential and induce renewed interest in its development.
A statement by Sahel Consulting stated that the event, which was held late last month, was to ensure a wider stakeholder engagement in the Nigerian dairy sector to critically review and provide recommendations to the draft national dairy policy.
It stated that the ALDDN programme implemented by the group is utilizing a systematic approach to catalyze a vibrant local dairy sector by improving the productivity of local breeds while promoting local sourcing of milk.
Issues highlighted by Mrs Winnie Lai-Solarin, the Acting Director, Department of Animal Husbandry Services (DAHS), Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development are the reflection of the strategic areas the ALDDN programme is working on to unlock the potentials in the dairy sector.
“During the breakout sessions with various stakeholders, extensive discussions and recommendations were provided to improve the proposed dairy policy.
It was pointed out that commercial feed and fodder production in Nigeria is essential in intensifying and facilitating the development of the value chain through strengthening the demand and supply along the value chain.”
The Sahel Consulting statement noted that the programme has engaged 140 commercial fodder producers to cultivate 400 hectares of land through farming of several kinds of cereal, grasses and legumes to produce silage and hay.
“This policy, when implemented, will encourage farmers to adopt commercial production of fodder and market it at affordable price to smallholder dairy farmers for the improvement of animal health, productivity and household income.
“This dairy production component of the policy also aligns with one of the targets of the ALDDN programme – to increase the milk yield of at least 75,000 cows from 15,000 dairy households by at least 30 per cent through genetics and breeding improvement, increased access to animal health services and training of smallholder dairy farmers on improved dairy farming practices.”

Turaren Wuta: A booming trade for the northern woman
The art of making incense, popularly known as Turaren Wuta, is no new tradition to those who come from the Northern region of Nigeria.
However, turaren wuta has now become a popular household item and is used by people of different tribes across the country.
In this report, Daily Trust Saturday x-rays how profitable the business of selling Turaren Wuta has become.
Although incense is mostly used for freshening homes and neutralising odours, it also serves other different purposes.
Some traditions believe that the smoke from the incense fortifies the home against evil spirits – like the ones used in the Catholic church, while others believe its scents can be used to attract men or women.
Some women also believe that the consistent use of Dhukkhan (a particular type of incense) serves as an aphrodisiac and can help in sexual exploits.
The popularity of the use of incense has grown to the extent that is it not only appreciated by the northern tribe but by almost all tribes around the country.
Locally made incense or turaren wuta as it is popularly known in the northern region of Nigeria has become a very profitable business in Nigeria, especially for those in the northern region as some of the ingredients needed are naturally grown there.
Turaren wuta is used in aromatherapy and as fragrance for the home, body or clothes.
Aromatherapy is the use of holistic healing treatment that uses natural plant extracts to promote health and well-being.
They are different types of turaren wuta available and they are made from a variety of different materials.
In Nigeria, the most common scents are sandal oud, grounded Kajiji, Hawee balls, sandal sticks, etc.
The grounded Kajiji is a plant that grows in Maiduguri, while Hawee sticks can be gotten from Kano.
Asides from smelling good, the business side of turaren wuta has been part of human existence for ages.
Fatima Kannike is an indigene of Maiduguri and specialises in the making of turaren wuta.
She tells Daily Trust Saturday how profitable the business is in Nigeria.
“In Maiduguri, out of ten houses on the street, it’s most likely that 6 or 7 families are involved in the turaren wuta business,” says Fatima.
When making her turaren wuta, Fatima mentions that some of her ingredients are locally sourced and some come from Senegal, India, Pakistan, etc.
She further explained that the most expensive turaren wuta are the ones which contain sandalwood and firche which is gotten from crocodile skin.
“Oftentimes, people believe that Prophet Mohammed (SAW) stepped on the very ground where the sandal wood tree grows, therefore it is considered sacred by many,” she said.
When making her turaren wuta, Fatima prefers using exquisite scented oils in order to make the scents from the turaren wuta last for a longer period of time, which could be between 6-8 hours and most of her oils are sourced from Dubai.
“After mixing my turaren wuta, I like to seal it and leave it for weeks to allow the ingredients marinate and become more potent.”
When asked what the process entails, Fatima narrates: “Making turaren wuta is easy for me.
As far as all my ingredients are available, I can do it in the comfort of my home.
It involves making a sugar syrup and frying the incense woods before adding the oils needed for the fragrance.”
However, Fatima mentions that when making turaren wuta, it’s often better to use firewood and the local frying pans in order to perfect the mixture.
She also advises to put on a face mask to avoid catching a cold and hand gloves to avoid your hands from being burnt.
When asked how she gets her customers, she explains that, often times, when burning her incense at home, her neighbours are always interested in knowing where she gets such incense that smells good, same thing also happens when she burns it at her shop.
Fatima’s customer base is mostly women from the North as most times they believe that turaren wuta gives off the scent of a wealthy Arabian and also believe that it helps to attract men.
“Where I come from, turaren wuta is considered an important gift on your wedding for the women, even more important than getting a fridge or TV,” she said.
However, Fatima notes that in recent times, she has also received a lot of female customers from the eastern part of the country.
Although her customer base is mostly women, she also has male customers who buy the body oils and incense for their cars.
Turaren wuta (sandal oud, grounded kajiji and halut)
Fatima has turaren wuta of different price range and sizes, depending on the ingredients used.
Fatima also sells her turaren wuta in litres for those who may like to join the business and not want to go through the stress of making it themselves.
“Depending on how big you want to start, getting into the business doesn’t need that much capital.
For instance, with 100,000 naira you can get two to three varieties of turaren wuta in litres to resale, with another sum of 400,000
you can purchase three to five varieties of scents.”
Asides the turaren
wuta, Fatima also makes humrah which is the body oil and can be used on clothes.
“Often times, because of how good the smell is, customers are always indecisive about what scent they want.
When issues like that arise, we like to burn each scent and allow the customer to decide which scent they like the most,” Fatima said.
She also advises her customers to use a charcoal burner instead of an electric burner because from experience, the electric burner wastes the turaren wuta and doesn’t burn as effectively as the charcoal.
Fatima’s most patronised scents are the sandal Oud, grounded kajiji and Halut.
She notes that these particular scents get sold out the minute her customers are aware of its availability.
Fatima also mentioned that her sales peak season is the rainy season, this is because the smoke that comes from the incense burner aides in keeping the house warm so customers are always willing to purchase more.
Mrs Amina Kogi, an ardent lover of turaren
wuta told Daily Trust Saturday that she spends at least N20,000 monthly purchasing different fragrance of turaren wuta for her house.
“Whenever I wake up in the morning, I tell the maid to burn incense round the house and doing that makes the house smell good and homely.”
Mrs Amina also told Daily Trust Saturday that most of her guests express delight over the pleasant scent in her home and insist on getting the contact of the person she purchased the incense from.
However, another turaren wuta seller Rahanatu Ahmad in Abuja told Daily Trust Saturday that she doesn’t believe that turaren wuta has any spiritual benefits asides it
sweet scent and its potency in clearing or diffusing bad/offensive odour.
She noted that the business is more profitable when sold in larger quantities.
Her cheapest turaren wuta goes for N3500 and the most expensive N23,000.
The prices all depends on the size of jars.
She also produces Durot – a special kind of turaren wuta that is sometimes considered medicinal.
She advises her female customers to purchase this particular turaren wuta to help fight minor infections and leave them feeling fresh and good.
She told our reporter that her most patronised scents are the Desired orbs and Thirteen scents.

Kano farmers trained on seed multiplication
The Sasakawa Africa Association (SAA), in collaboration with the Kano State Government and the Islamic Development Bank, has conducted a pre-dry season training of seed multiplication for farmers.
According to Sasakawa’s senior crop productivity enhancement officer, Mr Benjamin Adamu Shamaki, the training is aimed at ensuring a healthy circulation of improved seeds to the farmers.
He added that 20 seed multiplication farmers had been supported to breed improved rice and maize seeds.
He also said the project was targeting dry season farming activities in local governments that have access to irrigation facilities.
According to him, the project is for all the 44 local government areas of the state for an enhanced crop production, marketing and farm management techniques.
“We have 20 farmers from 20 local government areas with irrigation facilities.
The project is aimed at all the 44 local governments in the state.
We hope to continue with the other local governments when the wet season begins,’’ he said.
A beneficiary of the training from Warawa Local Government, Malam Rabi’u Bello, said he had learnt a lot of new innovations he believed would change not only the way he farmed but the whole farmers of Warawa irrigation, especially those dealing in rice production.

LG polls: Our primaries successful despite violence, says Lagos APC
The Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has said its primaries on Saturday ahead of the July local government elections, was successful.
It, however, called on the security agencies to probe incidents of violence in some local government areas and fish out the perpetrators.
Daily Trust reports that pockets of violence were recorded in some local government areas including Surulere where two people were feared dead.
The election could not hold in Surulere following the violence even as the local government area was allegedly under siege on Saturday as thugs and cultists loyal to some party leaders took control.
But the APC regretted the violence, calling on the security agencies to go after the perpetrators.
Spokesman of the party’s Interim Committee, Hon Seye Oladejo, in a statement, congratulated the party members “on the successful conduct of the primaries to elect candidates for the forthcoming Local Government elections to elect Chairmen, Vice-Chairmen and Councilors into the 20 Local Government Councils, 37 Local Council Development Areas and 377 wards.”
Oladejo stated that the statewide exercise witnessed a large turnout of members who cast their votes for preferred aspirants through the open secret ballot mode as stipulated by the guidelines.
He said: “We acknowledge with regrets the reported few cases of skirmishes in a few wards with the attendant fallouts.
“We empathize with the victims of the unfortunate incident.
“While we await the formal reports of the electoral officials, we wish to admonish the security agencies to conduct a thorough investigation to bring the culprits to book and maintain law and order.”
The party reiterated that hoodlums, cultists and other outlaws were not members of the party.
“The untoward intervention of external forces within the progressive fold should be resisted by all and sundry.
“In the same vein, the party wants to enjoin aggrieved aspirants to approach the Electoral Appeal Committee headed by Mr Lawal Pedro (SAN) to lodge formal complaints,” the statement added.

Police arrest 6 suspected IPOB members, recover arms in Ebonyi
The Police in Ebonyi have arrested six suspected members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and recovered five locally made pistols with 12 live ammunition from them.
Police spokesperson in the state, DSP Loveth Odah, said this in a statement on Tuesday.
Odah said the suspects were arrested during operations on Monday to disperse hoodlums enforcing the sit-at-home order by IPOB.
Odah also said the police neutralised three suspected armed robbers, recovered three expended cartridges, a jackknife, an axe, a cutlass and some charms from them.
She explained that following a distress call that some hoodlums had barricaded Ogbaga road, attacking and setting vehicles ablaze, operatives were swiftly deployed to the scene.
“The hoodlums on sighting the police opened fire.
“In the exchange of gun battle that ensued two members of the gang were fatally wounded while others escaped with bullet wounds into the nearby bush,” said the statement.
Odah said one locally-made shotgun, one locally-made revolver pistol with five live cartridges, one jack knife, one axe and some charms were recovered from them.
“A Toyota Picnic was set ablaze by the gang, including five motorcycles of different brands.
“Innocent citizens were attacked because they refused to obey the sit-at-home directive of the IPOB.
“The traumatised victims are currently responding to treatment at Alex Ekwueme Federal Teaching Hospital,” she said.
Odah explained that two of the IPOB suspects on surveillance mission were intercepted in front of the police headquarters in the state.
“One locally-made double barrel short gun with four cartridges were recovered from them,” Odah said.
She said one other suspect was killed after the police and sister security agencies engaged his gang in a gun duel on the Ikwo/Abakaliki expressway, Ikwo Local Government Area, while others escaped with bullet wounds.
“Frantic effort is ongoing to arrest the fleeing suspects,” Odah said.
(NAN)

Lewandowski scores 41st goal, breaks 49-year-old record
Robert Lewandowski, on Saturday, broke Gerd Mueller’s 49-year-old record when he bagged a 41st Bundesliga goal of the campaign seconds before the final whistle on the last weekend of the season.
Mueller, 75, is suffering from severe dementia, but ‘The Bomber’ remains an iconic figure in German football as the Bundesliga’s all-time top scorer with 365 goals, well ahead of Lewandowski’s tally of 277.
Many thought
Mueller’s record of 40 goals for Bayern Munich in 1971/72 would never be matched until Lewandowski rounded the goalkeeper to score in the same club’s
5-2 rout of Augsburg on Saturday after equalling the record last weekend.
“It was tense until the last second, I would have liked to have scored earlier,” a relieved Lewandowski told Sky.
“Sometimes you also have to stay patient, which was difficult.
“I always believed that a chance would come.
That was a special and historic moment.”
While Mueller scored his 40 goals over 34 league games in 1971/72, injury and squad rotation meant Lewandowski broke the record in just 29 matches.
Bayern scored 101 goals in the league in 1971/72 and 99 this season.
Physically, the 32-year-old Lewandowski is very different to Mueller, who was 26 in the 1971/72 season.
‘Athlete, artist’
“Robert is an athlete, Gerd was an artist,” Mueller’s wife – Uschi Mueller – told magazine Sport Bild.
At 1.84m and 79kgs, Lewandowski is a model athlete, renowned for his strict diet and training programme.
Mueller, at 1.76m and 80kgs in his prime, was nicknamed “short fat Mueller” by former Bayern coach Zlatko Cajkovski.
The pair share an insatiable appetite for goals.
Lewandowski has hit the net on average every 60 minutes this season, while ‘The Bomber’ scored every 77 minutes in 1971/72.
Lightning reaction speed is another similarity.
Mueller was a copybook penalty box striker, who could transfer the ball from his right to left foot with bewildering speed.
His low centre of gravity helped Mueller steal an edge over defenders in the first few metres.
Given a sniff of goal, he was an ice-cool finisher.
Lewandowski is just as dynamic, but in contrast to Mueller, he is happy to shoot from outside the box or use the space to outsprint defenders.
They share the killer instinct when the ball is near goal, often being alert to a rebound and waiting until the last second to pounce, as Lewandowski demonstrated on Saturday.
How it started
Lewandowski started 2020/21 with a bang, converting a penalty and providing two assists in an 8-0 thrashing of the Schalke, a record result for the opening game of a Bundesliga season.
He failed to score in the next game, a shock 4-1 loss at Hoffenheim, but provided all four goals, including a late match-winning penalty in a nervy 4-3 home win over Hertha Berlin last October.
He was rested for one game in late October after scoring ten goals in his first five games, then hit a purple patch with 25 in 20 league games.
A knee injury playing for Poland in late March left Lewandowski on 35 goals after a hat-trick against Stuttgart.
After three weeks out, he returned with a goal in the shock loss at Mainz before hitting a hat-trick in the 6-0 home win over Moenchengladbach which won Bayern the title.
While Lewandowski has scored consistently, Mueller had sporadic purple patches, netting just three goals in the first nine games of the 1971/72 season.
However, he had scored 18 goals by the halfway point, including four in an 11-1 thrashing of Dortmund in November 1971.
He then hit five goals in a 7-0 thrashing of Oberhausen which sparked a run of 16 goals in just seven games, finishing the season with six goals in three games.
(AFP)

BPE, education ministry among 20 outstanding MDAs
The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Ministry of Education, and the Ministry of Transportation are among the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) named as the 20 Most Outstanding MDAs in Nigeria this year.
This was disclosed by the CEO, Profiles & Biographies, Mr. Kammonke Abam, in a statement in Abuja, as an update on the firm’s research and compilation of the accomplishments of MDAs to mark the sixth anniversary of the current administration.
He said the assessment result is relative to the MDAs fulfilling their ministerial mandate in line with the administration’s 9-point development agenda, and his firm’s evaluation benchmark.
Abam said the firm adopted an evaluation benchmark based on five criteria of relevance, efficiency, effectiveness, impact and sustainability in assessing all the MDAs in line with best practice.
The other MDAs which made the list include the Ministry of Works, Hydrocarbon Pollution Remediation Project (HYPREP), Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), National Library of Nigeria, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM); Ministry of Women Affairs, and Ministry of Niger Delta.
The rest are the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC), Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA), Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC), Niger Delta Power Development Company Ltd, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Aviation, and the Voice of Nigeria (VON).

Preparing for Ramadan
With only few days to the commencement of Ramadan fast for the Islamic lunar year of 1442AH, it is no longer news that the holy month is by the corner.
It is in this sacred month that the holy Qur’an was revealed to Prophet Muhammad (Salla-llahu Alayhi Wa Sallam, SAW) for the guidance of humanity.
Within the month of Ramadan is a night that is better than a thousand other months.
Because Ramadan is a unique spiritual season, it is important to effectively prepare ourselves for it so that every opportunity availed by Ramadan is optimally utilized; without taking anything for granted.
Ramadan is a month that Muslims happily look up to.
It is a month like no other.
It is a holy month in which Allah (SWT) has promised to forgive every repentant Muslim; grant mercy to every seeker of clemency; and pardon those who ask to be pardoned.
Abu Hurayrah (RA) reports from the Prophet (SAW) that the gates to hell fire shall remain closed throughout each Ramadan period just as the gates to paradise are left open during the same period so that the wish and prayer of those who desire the latter (paradise) would graciously be granted.
Preparing for Ramadan requires us to know when to watch out for the crescent of the Islamic lunar month of Ramadan.
Going by the current count of the month of Sha’ban on the Timing Chapter calendar, the search for the crescent is expected to begin on Monday April 12, 2021 which is equivalent to 29th day of Sha’ban.
Where the crescent of Ramadan is not sighted on the 29th day of Sha’aban, the month would be deemed to have naturally completed its circle on the 30th day in which case Ramadan fast automatically begins the following day, which would be the 1st day of Ramadan.
We are not required to begin the Ramadan fast until we have heard of the sighting of the crescent of Ramadan from credible sources.
In our case in Nigeria, the tradition is for Muslims to wait for the announcement of the sighting of the crescent from His Eminence the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Saad Abubakar.
Allah (SWT) states in Qur’an 4:59
“O ye who believe!
Obey Allah, obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you…”
The more we remain steadfast and patient to wait for and obey Sultan’s words, the more united and stronger we remain as a Muslim community.
We advise members of the Muslim community to be wary of unsubstantiated pieces of information that may emerge from social media sources on the commencement of Ramadan.
We also urge the general public to abstain from circulating unconfirmed news about moon sighting.
Misleading information can throw Muslim communities into confusion.
Remember that Allah’s wrath awaits rumour mongers.
The teachings of the Prophet Muhammad (SAW) discourage the observance of voluntary fast close to the start of Ramadan fast.
This is to avoid a situation where voluntary fast, which is a prophetic injunction, is seen to be part of Ramadan fast; the latter being an obligatory act of worship sanctioned by Allah (SWT).
For those who are used to observing voluntary fast every Monday, they are advised to skip Monday next week because of its proximity to Ramadan; being 29th day of Sha’aban.
As part of deliberate preparations for Ramadan and in order to take utmost advantage of the spiritual benefits of Ramadan, it is vital for us to review our daily routines so as to create enough time for engaging in devoutional activities.
This will enable us have more time to recite the Glorious Qur’an (in the case of those who never had it as a routine) or more time for reciting and understanding the Qur’an (in the case of those who already had such on their schedule).
Although government is yet to issue a public statement on the nature of protocols that would guide the conduct of this year’s tafsir sessions in mosques and other designated centers, that should not stop us from sitting down to re-organize our existing schedules and allot time for attending or listening to tafsir sessions.
Let us also decide on the time for observing Tarawih prayers in consultations with individuals that traditionally make up the prayer congregation at the family level or conventionally at a public mosque.
Let us also define the kind of tasks we engage in during the daytime of the entire period of Ramadan so that we do not miss out from observing Tarawih prayers after breaking the fast or Tahajjud prayers after midnight.
In order to preserve the sanctity of our Ramadan fast, there’s need to review our usual interactions with ICT platforms especially the social media.
This is to forestall the possibility of watching or listening to forbidden contents.
It is important to identify and avoid specific websites, television channels and radio programmes that would impact negatively on our Ramadan fast.
We should be prepared to also avoid certain conversations in our respective places of work to prevent us from expressing or hearing obscene phrases.
Muslim scholars, preachers, prayer leaders, presenters and anchors of radio and television programmes are urged to eschew the use of provocative and discourteous expressions during preaching sessions.
They are expected to exhibit a good sense of maturity in the course of educating their audience on the teachings of Islam.
Wisdom and good speech, not name-calling or insults, are central to effective and popular religious proselytization.
With the country still struggling to overcome several challenges, it is wise for Muslim clerics to abstain from sandwiching their religious preaching with political and ethnic sentiments.
We advise dealers and retailers of consumer goods against taking undue advantage of the Ramadan season to increase prices of essential commodities.
It is wicked for any trader to see Ramadan as an opportunity to hike prices of foodstuffs for the simple reason of the high demand for certain commodities especially sugar and fruits during Ramadan.
Let us be God-fearing in all that we do and say to earn a living.
Philanthropic individuals, groups, and NGOs are encouraged to organize or support public breaking of Ramadan fast (called Iftar Jama’i in Islamic literature), at least for less-privileged Muslims.
It is time in Ramadan for every Muslim including the haves-not to extend hand of friendship, charity, and kindness to fellow Muslims.
May Allah (SWT) guide us to begin and end the Ramadan fast in peace and with ease; amin.

Afenifere, Ohaneze seek emergency national confab
The leadership of some major socio-cultural groups from the Southern and Middle Belt part of the country on Monday adopted a common position and called for an emergency national conference that would lead to the emergence of a new constitution and restructuring of Nigeria.
The groups, comprising the Afenifere, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the Middle Belt and the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU) made the call in Abuja at a dialogue session titled ‘The Nigeria’s 2023 Presidential Transition Inter-ethnic Peace Dialogue.’
According to them, it is possible to reverse the current challenges facing and prevent Nigeria from breaking into pieces if the federal government listens and implements the recommendations they are putting forward.
President of Afenifere, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, while presenting the position of the Yorubas, which was also adopted by both the Ohaneze and Middle Belt Forum, said the process for a genuine consensus on an acceptable national constitution should henceforth begin with the production of position documents by all nationalities between now an December.
He said going forward, Nigerians should be allowed to exercise their mandate and sovereignty on how they want to live together under mutually beneficial terms.
Speaking on behalf of the Ohaneze, Chief Chukwuemeka Ezeife, said while it fully endorsed the proposals by Afenifere, there was a need for an emergency national conference to consider the proposals of various ethnic groups and also to review the reports of previous national conferences so as to come up with a new constitution accepted by all.
He said the problems being witnessed in the country started when the military took over power in 1966 and removed the federal constitution that would have guided the country to a viable economic and political entity.
Also speaking, the leader of the Northern Consensus Initiative, Dr Awal Abdullahi, said: “The North before now was saying we don’t believe in separation
but as I’m standing, I’m telling you that if there’s going to be separation tomorrow, the North is ready for it, we’re also ready, let’s go our different ways
and I’m telling you this with all sincerity.
“Northern Nigeria before now did not want to hear anything separation, but as at today, as I speak to you, the North is equally ready.
What I’m saying might be controversial, but I’m speaking the mind of northerners
and I have no apology to anyone in this hall.”
Reacting, the president of the Middle Belt Forum, Pogu Bitrus, said the Middle Belt would not pull out of the country with the core north.
He said: “So if my brother says the north is going, be sure the middle-belt is not going with you
, you’re on your own.
We’ve served and sacrificed for this country.
“The war that occurred, the middle-belt was used to fight while the North sat back to enjoy.”
Also speaking, a former speaker of the House of Representatives, Umar Ghali Na’abah observed that the leadership of the country was not serving the people properly.
“We have weak and irresponsible leadership in the country.
We need to talk as one Nigeria and not people from the North or from the South,” Na’abah, who is also the chairman of the National Consultative Forum(NCF) said.

Smoking kills 29,472 Nigerians annually — FG
The Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire on Monday said a research finding published in 2021 by the Centre for the Study of the Economies of Africa showed that 29,472 deaths in Nigeria were attributable to smoking.
He said this in Abuja while quoting the 2018 Tobacco Atlas report, during the commemoration of the World No Tobacco Day.
He said the theme for this year’s World No Tobacco Day, ‘Commit to Quit” came at a good time when the global community was battling the COVID-19 pandemic.
“This is especially so, as evidence has shown that tobacco users and those with underlying non Communicable Diseases (NCDs) are at higher risk of severe Covid-19 outcomes.
Assisting people to quit tobacco use will therefore improve COVID-19 treatment outcomes,” he said.
According to him, Nigeria records over 16, 100 deaths from tobacco-related diseases every year, stressing that “The death toll from tobacco is high in Nigeria.”
He said tobacco use or exposure to second-hand smoke is the leading preventable risk factor for non-communicable diseases (NCDs) like hypertension, stroke, cancers, diabetes and chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases.
The World Health Organisation (WHO) Regional Director for Africa, Dr Matshidiso Moeti, said  Nigeria was selected as one of the 22 countries for support by WHO (HQ/AFRO) to scale-up programmes to help people quit tobacco, especially at the primary health care and community levels.
She called on the minster to identify a space within the ministry to set-up a call center office from which the counsellors will respond to caller needs.

France suspends use of AstraZeneca COVID Vaccine
President Emmanuel Macron of France has suspended the use of AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine in the country, pending a review of its safety by the European Medicines Agency (EMA).
“The decision has been made to suspend the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine as a precaution, hoping that we can resume it quickly if the judgement of the EMA allows it,” Macron told a press conference, adding that an announcement by the EMA was expected on Tuesday afternoon.
“We have a simple guide, to be informed by science and the competent health authorities and to do it as part of a European strategy,” he said.
He said the suspension will be effective “until tomorrow (Tuesday) afternoon” when the EMA will make its position known.
Several European countries, including Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, suspended usage of the shot after reported blood clotting incidents.
The decision, which reverses previous guidance from French health authorities to continue using the jab, came just a day after French Prime Minister Jean Castex had defended the vaccine.
“At this stage, we must have confidence in this vaccine,” Castex said on Sunday.
“If not, we’ll have delays with our vaccinations and French people will be less protected and the health crisis will last longer.”
Speaking alongside Macron at the press conference in southwest France, Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez announced no change for Spain, but said it was important “to give a message of guarantee and safety to the whole of the European population regarding the vaccination process.”
Macron also said the French government would have “decisions to take” in the next few days in order to control the spread of COVID-19 cases after an uptick in cases and a rise in hospitalisation.
“We will probably have new decisions to take in the coming days,” Macron said.
He said the government needed to look at “the reality of the epidemic, town by town, region by region: it’s what we are doing.”
Hospitals in the Paris region are close to capacity, with patients being transferred out of the capital region to other parts of France, while other hotspots of infection are in the north around Calais and the Cote d’Azur.
Macron decided against a third national lockdown at the end of January, saying instead a policy of 6pm nation-wide curfew and a partial shutdown of bars, restaurants and other social and entertainment meeting places should continue.

Fiscal discipline, key to our success ― Okowa
Delta Governor, Sen. (Dr) Ifeanyi Okowa, said adherence to his fiscal discipline and superior planning accounted for the successes recorded by his administration in the last six years.
Okowa stated this in Asaba on Saturday.
He said that his administration’s success during the period was borne out of greater coordination in administration and superior thought-process.
He recalled that prior to his administration, the state’s budget hovered around N400 billion mark, with naira exchanging at N180 to a dollar as against current budget of the state being in the N300 billion mark, with exchange rate at N492 to a dollar.
Okowa said that following the devaluation of the naira over the years, there was less value the naira could impact on projects.
He said, “In the past we had bigger budgets and greater value for money because the naira was relatively strong at N180 per dollar compared to now we are at N492 to a dollar with a budget of N300 billion per annum.
“Unfortunately for us too, the recurrent budget in terms of salaries has also increased remarkably, which has also further deepened the negative effect of the recurrent budget which had made our capital portfolio smaller.
“The fact that there have been devaluation of the naira made it have less value on projects and having realised this, we needed to plan critically and we needed to be sure that we have good monitoring of projects, good selection of projects, good selection of contractors and planning in such a manner that we are not wasteful.”
The governor attributed early passage and implementation of the State’s budget as part of the drivers for his administration’s success story.
“We also monitored the seasons and acted by the seasons and that helped us a lot.
We ensured that our budgets are passed on time and implemented on time.
“Our budgets are signed by December so that we are able to use the window of January to mid May to do most of the construction jobs.
“When you prepare your funding for that level it helps you because if the budget is such that comes out late, it means that you will contend with the rains to deliver projects,” he said.
He added that “the strategy has helped but it requires a lot of prudence, a lot of thinking and time to be able to get all these things done”.
On the remaining two years in his tenure, Okowa assured Deltans of his continued drive to work till the last day to provide a stronger Delta .
Okowa also assured that his administration would continue to stay on course in areas of health, agriculture, education, saying “we will continue to ensure that we remain focused to provide the needed programmes and trainings to enable us have the various functionality of the institutions that exist under those ministries.
“Politics tends to be distractive and I know that,
but I know that by God’s grace
I have the capacity to manage the two
and I will not like the two to suffer because I would have failed.
“So, I must stay on course but I will not also abandon politics,” the governor stated.

Let the struggle continue even if they take my life, says Sowore
Omoyele Sowore, human rights activist, has asked his supporters to carry on with “the struggle” even if he loses his life.
Reacting to the incident at Unity Fountain in Abuja on Monday morning, Sowore simply identified the officer who shot him as one ACP Etine.
“Just been shot by a police officer, ACP Atine at the Unity Fountain in Abuja.
#RevolutionNow Let the struggle continue even if they take my life!”
he tweeted.
Just been shit by a police officer, ACP Atine at the Unity Fountain in Abuja.
#RevolutionNow Let the struggle continue even if they take my life!
#BuhariMustGo pic.twitter.com/c9ui2UutXO 
— Omoyele Sowore (@YeleSowore)
May 31, 2021
Inibehe Effiong, one of Sowore’s lawyers, had said that the officer fired a teargas cannister directly at the right thigh of the activist.
“The criminal officer is said to be CSP Atine.
I watched Sowore being shot live on Facebook.”
“This is what Nigeria has been turned into under Buhari.
They’ve declared war on the Civic Space.
“The FCT Police Commissioner has fenced the Unity Fountain with iron and cables to prevent protests.
This is a criminal offence under the Anti-Torture Act of 2017.”
Sowore has reportedly been taken to the hospital.

NIHORT boss gives reasons for tomato seasonal glut
The Executive Director National Horticultural Research Institute, Dr Abayomi Olaniyan, has identified inadequate expertise in tomato processing as the main cause of the seasonal glut and inconsistent supply of the product in the country.
Olaniya spoke at the just concluded empowerment training for youths in the area of tomato and telfaria production.
He revealed that the country produces 2.3 million metric tonnes against 1.8 million tonnes produced two years ago while the national demand is 3 million.
Our correspondent reports that about 100 youths, who are residents of Telfaria Kwale, Delta State, were trained in tomato and telfaria production by the National Horticulture Research Institute (NIHORT), supported by the federal lawmaker representing Ndokwa/Ukwuani constituency, Nicholas Ossai.
Ossai, who was represented by Ambassador Chibuzor Okereke, urged the beneficiaries to take full advantage of the programme in expanding their existing skills in farming.
Earlier, Chairman, NIHORT Governing Board, Major General Mohammed A. Garba, had described agriculture as a tool for achieving sustainable economic development in Nigeria.

The three reasons Jose Mourinho was sacked
Strangely enough, the two subjects (The sack of Mourinho and the Super League fiasco) seem to run into each other as rumours circulated that Jose Mourinho had refused to take Monday training at Tottenham as they were announced as one of the breakaway “super elite” clubs signed up to the Super League.
After checking this out thoroughly at Tottenham, I can tell you that is not true.
Mourinho did not take training because he was already aware that his days at Spurs had come to an end.
The training session carried on but he did not attend.
Chief Executive Daniel Levy arrived early and summoned Mourinho into his office situated at the training facility.
There he gave Mourinho the news that he was fired!
Managing Director Daniel Levy was unhappy with Mourinho criticising several of his players following their recent run of poor results.
The players were angry that Mourinho had not supported them and in the dressing room all was not well and
Levy became very alarmed.
Mourinho never seems to learn his lesson.
He was sacked at Chelsea, sacked at Manchester United and now sacked by Tottenham because he turned on his players and refused to take the blame personally for poor results.
Once again the point is proven that if the players are not happy the manager has to go.
The players were all sent a text informing them that Mourinho was no longer in charge.
Levy was also upset that Mourinho had spent seventeen months at White Hart Lane and not produced a team superior to that of Mauricio Pochettino.
In fact, the team has been far more negative in its style of football and tactics.
Levy was upset that players of the quality of Gareth Bale and Dele Alli were left sitting on the bench despite others struggling to get results.
The biggest factor is that Mourinho has failed to deliver European Champions League football for next season and his position relied on a top four finish which is now only a remote possibility.
Those are the three reasons Jose is heading back to Portugal with his family and all that is left for him is to ponder a future which does not look very encouraging.
His time in the elite
Premier League is over.
Of course, one thing to bring a smile to his face is that Spurs now have to hand over two years salary which represents the time left on his contract.
That is a cool £20million!
Lingard decides on his future  
Despite approaches from Arsenal and Tottenham, Jesse Lingard has decided he wants to sign permanently for West Ham where he has scored a superb 13 goals in 10 matches since joining on loan from Manchester United.
At the Hammers manager David Moyes has allowed Jesse a free role moving across the pitch as an attacking striker and midfielder.
He has responded with several man of the match performances.
United manager Ole Gunner Solskjaer has indicated that he would like Jesse back but cannot guarantee him a permanent first team place.
I have been told that United have set a fee of £21.5million.
West Ham have paid £3million in loan fees this season which means they will end up paying £24.5million which is considerably more than many media outlets have reported.
Cavani and Greenwood link up
Uruguan superstar Edinson Cavani and Mason Greenwood have formed an elite club despite a slight difficulty with the language barrier.
Together they have worked to improve
Mason and manager Ole Gunner Solskjaer says he is now a natural No.9 and the 19-year-old has developed bodily and mentally.
Solskjaer said this week, “I can see that Edi really appreciates Mason’s talent, his hunger and willingness to learn.
And in Edinson Cavani he is learning from one of the very best.
I don’t want to see Mason playing with his back to the goal.”
Despite all these positive remarks I have learned that Solskjaer will still play Mason out wide for the foreseeable future and believes he will move inside during the next couple of years.
He added, “Maybe in the future he can play as a central striker
but I still think that’s a few years away.
Being a centre-forward in the Premier League is probably the hardest position to play.
At the moment I think Mason is more suited to playing that wide role, dropping into pockets, finding space and running in behind.”
Aguero tops lists of big clubs after Haaland 
With Sergio Aguero certain to leave Manchester City at the end of season
, several big clubs are lining up to sign him.
Chelsea are the latest to show interest and owner Roman Abramovich has told the Blues that he will endorse any approach by making the money available.
However, he desperately wants the Blues to sign Erling Haaland and he is making it a personal endeavour to sign the Norwegian.
At the same time, Italian giants Juventus have contacted Aguero’s agents to see if he is interested in linking up with Cristiano Ronaldo in Italy.
Barcelona are also keeping tabs on the Argentine and they are drawing up a mouth-watering contract which is performance based and includes huge win bonuses and appearance money.
Both Chelsea and Barca see Aguero as their fall-back position should either of them fail to sign Norwegian super striker Erling Haaland.
Wijnaldum wants to play alongside Memphis Depay
Liverpool’s Gini Wijnaldum’s quest to play for Barcelona at the end of this season is in some doubt because cash is a problem at the Spanish club.
Manager Ronald Koeman is trying to sign Memphis Depay from French club Lyon and he and Gini have formed a strong partnership playing for Holland.
Gini’s ambition is to link up with Depay at Barcelona and play alongside Lionel Messi.
Wijnaldum and Depay are both out of contract this summer and therefore can negotiate their wages directly with the club.
Gini’s agent has already worked out a deal which suits both Barca and Gini.
Depay’s future is still not settled.
Liverpool’s Jurgen Klopp wants Gini to stay but will only offer a two-year contract whereas Barca have offered three.
How Guardiola taught Tuchel to beat him
When Chelsea beat Manchester City in the FA Cup last weekend most fans did not realise the tremendous influence that Pep Guardiola has been on Thomas Tuchel.
It mainly happened seven years ago in Munich when both managers were working in Germany, The two were having dinner one night and the talk turned to football.
Tactics were discussed and Pep cleared the table.
He then used the pepper and salt pots and other items from their meal to show positions on the field and the best way to use players.
Pep explained how he changed Barcelona, one of his previous clubs, when he bought Cesc Fabregas from Arsenal and then changed Lionel Messi and used him as a false number nine.
He showed Thomas how to create space on the field with a back three and back four.
Until last weekend the two had played each other five times and Pep never lost however last weekend
those tactical talks and lessons were not wasted as Tuchel at last
came out a winner.
Kane’s unenviable record
A sad fact but true
: Harry Kane has just broken Liverpool’s unenviable record, held by Robbie Fowler, of having scored the most Premier League goals without ever having won the trophy!
That is one reason Fowler and others have called for Harry to leave Spurs and seek success elsewhere before it is too late.
Hey Jude…you are best
It is ironic how fast things move along in football.
Twelve months ago several clubs were watching and thinking about bidding for 17-year-old Jude Bellingham.
He was invited and accepted a tour of Manchester United’s Old Trafford and the new Carrington Training Centre.
In the end Jude signed for German club Dortmund because they promised him more first team appearances than United.
Fast forward twelve months
and Bellingham dominated the midfield for Dortmund against Manchester City in the Champions League.
He played with confidence like a seasoned veteran.
He had done the same thing in Dortmund’s previous European match against Spanish club Sevilla
so this was no flash in the pan.
Everyone tuned in to watch Erling Haaland but were left talking about Jude.

Experts warn of anarchy as IPOB locks down South-East
Analysts and social commentators on Monday rang the warning bell over what they described as setting in of anarchy in the South-East region following total lockdown of the five southeastern estates in compliance with the stay-at-home directive issued by the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB).
Our correspondents report that streets were completely deserted in all major cities as residents shelter at home for fear of drawing the ire of the IPOB militiamen who patrolled key areas ahead in the past three days.
IPOB through its spokesperson
, Emma Powerful hailed governors from the South-East in a press statement for “supporting” the stay-at-home directive to commemorate the lives of those killed in the area during the Nigerian Civil War.
Daily Trust reports that tension had mounted in the five states of the South-East zone of the country ahead of the sit-at-home order issued by the proscribed self-deamination group, which took effect yesterday.
Although some state governments in the zone initially kicked against the directive by IPOB, with warnings to trouble-makers to stay off the zone, our correspondents report total compliance, a development that attracted praises from IPOB for the South-East governors for supporting the sit-at-home directive.
Looming anarchy 
Security analysts and social commentators who spoke with Daily Trust on Monday warned of impending anarchy.
A political scientist and public affairs commentator, Prof Jibrin Ibrahim said there appears to be a “unity of purpose” between the secessionist agitators and political leaders from the region.
He however predicted the relationship to be short-lived.
Prof Ibrahim said the proscribed group has, by now, “engaged in a total attack against the Nigerian state” through years of “effective pursuance of its agenda”.
According to him, “The major problem is that their elite have kept quiet for too long, and that is very disappointing because the people of the South-East are spread all over Nigeria.
They have fruitful investments all over the country which they are going to lose by going to war.
The feeling I have is that they don’t seem to care,” he said.
On his part, a human rights activist and former chairman of the National Human Rights Commission, Professor Chidi Odinkalu said compliance with the sit-at-home order in the southeast amounted to a vote of no confidence in the political leadership in the region.
“The people are questioning the imposed model of political leadership in the region.
All over the region, you have politicians who were manufactured into office.
“In Imo State, for instance, you have a governor who came fourth in the elections but became first through the Supreme Court’s verdict.
There is also the case of Okigwe North Central zone where a man who was disqualified succeeded in being manufactured into office.
“So, part of the narrative is about the functionality or legitimacy of political leadership in the region,” Odinkalu said.
A security Management and Intelligence Specialist, Kabiru Adamu said the sit-at-home order shows clearly that non-state actors are challenging the supremacy of the state, adding that the success of this challenge indicates an increasing failure of the capacity of the state to provide security for its citizens.
“Unfortunately it points to the failing nature of the Nigerian state; the more non-state actors like the proscribed IPOB issue such directives –and these directives are successful-
the more we see this kind of failure by the state.
It does not in any way portend well for our national security.
“What we know for a fact is that unfortunately and consistently when IPOB attacked and even force people to do things against their will and the security agencies have not been able to prevent that.
So, it is our understanding that people just chose to comply mainly because of safety reasons,” Adamu said.
With regards to the governors, he said they are playing the political card, saying: “I think they are being politically correct mainly to help themselves and to avoid issues that may come.
The governors are sitting on the fence but what I would like to remind them is that this is a phase in an insurgency.
It appears this phase is to target security infrastructure.
Phase two would be to target individuals and it is very likely that phase three would be to target government offices and all that.”
South-East shut down 
Streets in the five states making the southeast of Nigeria were deserted on Monday as residents complied with the sit-at-home order by the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB).
Our correspondents report that government offices, schools, hotels, shopping malls, and banks were under lock and key as markets and roads were empty in the major cities of Aba, Owerri, Awka, Ebonyi and Enugu among others.
IPOB praised the people for compliance, boasting that ‘very soon the stage will be set for our referendum to decide our fate’.
Daily Trust reports that four persons were reportedly killed in Ebonyi as security operatives engaged members of IPOB enforcing the sit-at-home order in the area.
It was also gathered that all roads leading into and out of Anambra, especially Onitsha, the bridgehead that links Asaba and Western States of Nigeria, Enugu-Anambra at Amasea border and those leading into and exit of Nnewi- the industrial city of Anambra State were ghosts of themselves as residents deserted them.
Daily Trust observed the presence of joint security personnel, comprising Army, Navy, Nigeria Security, and Civil Defence Corps, Immigration officers at both ends of Niger Bridge head as well as Oga junction by Atani Road to prevent the breakdown of law and order.
People who were on essential duties, such as doctors, nurses, journalists were periodically checked by security operatives before allowed to proceed on their journey.
Similarly, the streets of Owerri, the Imo State capital and its environs were empty as residents observed the sit-at-home order.
In a bid to maintain law and order, a combined team of security agents drawn from the army, police, navy and sister agencies cordoned off strategic areas identified as flashpoints in and around Owerri and its environs.
Our correspondent gathered that there was a heavy military presence along Aba – Owerri Road, specifically at Naze
No 1, Akachi Road where some air force personnel were allegedly killed on Saturday.
There was also a heavy security presence at Okigwe Road and at Imo State University roundabout.
Men of the anti-kidnapping unit in their patrol vans took over Umezurike Hospital off Royce Road, while Ama JK along Douglas Road, Control Roundabout, Concord Hotel Road by first inland road junction and Protea Hotel.
Heavy security presence was also witnessed at Airport Junction Aba-Owerri Road and Obiangwu-Ngor Okpala, where a former presidential aide, Ahmed Gulak, was killed on Sunday.
The sit-at-home order also gained compliance in Aba, Abia State.
Our reporter who monitored the situation around three major axes in the city: Over-Rail, Aba Main Town and Ndiegoro reported that all major and minor markets including street shops in people’s residences were all shut down.
Business outfits including banks, government offices, markets and schools were also closed.
Notable specialised goods markets like the Jubilee Road auto spare parts markets, St Michael’s Road phone and computer accessories market, Hospital Road electrical Market and the popular Pound Road kitchen utensils Market were without commercial activities.
Foodstuffs markets like Ama-Ogbonna Market, Achiaru Market, Ahia-Udele, Good morning Market, Highlife Market, Nkwor-Ngwa Market and the ever-busy Railway Halt Market were also affected by the order.
Our reporter also observed that the Aba Central Police Station, Aba Area Command Headquarters, and the Ndiegoro Police Station remained barricaded with police officers within their barracks and station gates.
There was heavy shooting at Nnodo in Ebonyi Local Government Area of Ebonyi State between suspected members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and the police.
Daily Trust also gathered that the shooting erupted between the police and members of the IPOB when they were enforcing the sit-at-home order on residents in the area.
A reliable source who doesn’t want his name in print told our correspondent that motorbikes and cars were set ablaze during the attack.
Explosion rocks market in Rivers
The sit-at-home order recorded insignificant compliance in Oyigbo urban in Oyigbo Local Government Area of Rivers State where there is a huge presence of Igbo residents just as an explosion rocked parts of the popular Mile 3 Park Market in Port Harcourt.
Our reporter learnt that Igbo residents of Oyigbo did not go to market in compliance with the sit-at-home directives.
It was also observed that the entrance gate of the popular Eke Oyigbo Market, mainly dominated by the Igbo traders, was open for business but many of the traders did not open their shops.
Also in Port Harcourt, the popular Diobu Market where most of the traders are Igbos did not also open their stores in compliance with the order.
A trader at Oyigbo Market, Ikechukwu Ibe said that they decided to close their businesses on Monday in honour of the fallen Igbo heroes who died during the Biafran war.
Elsewhere in Jos, the Plateau State capital, our correspondent reports that shop owners especially Igbos closed their business premises for fear of reprisal attacks over what is happening in the South-East.
It was observed that many Igbos especially those having their businesses within the heart of the city didn’t open their business in the morning, while those who opened later closed in the afternoon.
Our correspondent who went round Ahmadu Bello Way, Katako Market and other areas within the city reports that apart from the Igbos, other business owners equally closed their business for fear of unforeseen violence that may erupt in the city.
Security agents, including police and SSS, were seen in their numbers around the popular Ahmadu Bello Way, trying to avert the eruption of violence in the area and other strategic locations of the state capital.
By Fidelis Mac-Leva (Abuja), Titus Eleweke (Awka), Jude Aguguo Owuamanam (Owerri), Nabob Ogbonna (Abakiliki), Victor Edozie (Port Harcourt), Linus Effiong (Aba), Ado Abubakar Musa (Jos)

Appraising Kano free education policy implementation
It is now two years since the commencement of the implementation of the ‘Free, Compulsory Basic and Post Basic Education’ in Kano State introduced at the dawn of Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje’s second tenure in office.
And despite the COVID-19 pandemic that ravaged the global community and nearly pushed the nation’s economy to its knees, the administration endure investing into the policy which is also in configuration with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
targeted at provision of quality education that can only supported by consistent funding.
The 2020 budget, which had to be revised to capture realities that cushion the disruptions caused by the adverse effect of COVID-19 pandemic, the Ganduje’s administration earmarked to the education sector 30 per cent of the total revised budget.
While in the year 2021, the sum of N37.8 billion representing 25 per cent of the total budget is allocated, less than 5 per cent of last year to education to sustain and improve on the success so far achieved in the implementation of the education policy in the state.
There is no gainsaying the fact that the implementation of free and compulsory basic and secondary education in the last two years for all children in the state has recorded huge success.
Though very expensive, considering the huge amount of money involved, Ganduje believes that there is no better time to lay a strong foundation for the future of Kano children, than now; and this must be done by ensuring that every Kano child has unhindered access to free and compulsory education.
This is a promise by the governor and has been fulfilled.
During the period under review, the state government’s huge investments into the sector in the area of infrastructure, staff development and the provision of teaching/ learning equipment made the policy effective by guaranteeing equal opportunities for all citizens to access quality and inclusive education without any form of discrimination.
This is also in addition to working towards comprehensive and integrated basic education reform programmes to deepen the processes, structures and mechanisms for improving accountability in teaching and learning across both public and private schools in the state.
The state government has distributed instructional materials worth over N1.5 billion to primary and junior secondary schools in the 44 Local Government Areas of the state.
This is in addition to the distribution of thousands of specially built three-seater pupils’ desks and teachers’ furniture to schools across the state as well as the distribution of free school uniforms to 779,522 primary schools pupils across the 44 Local Government Areas of the state as a follow-up to the new education policy in the state.
It was Governor Ganduje’s conviction that for the free and compulsory primary education to be life-like, there is the need for the construction and renovation of infrastructure in primary schools in addition to policies and programmes aimed at enhancing teaching and learning atmosphere.
The administration has distributed, in the latest exercise, over N880million to Community Promotion Council (CPC) for renovation of primary schools in the 44 local governments of the state.
The governor’s commitment was renewed in series of similar exercise when on   Tuesday, April 13, 2021, Governor Ganduje launched the disbursement of N148 million in grants to 1,400 public high schools across the state as part of the state Education Day activities.
The grant is also aimed at improving the state’s
Almajiri free education and integration policy.
The event marked the distribution of vouchers to schools for daily maintenance, electronic tablets to education officials of the 44 Local Government Areas for data generation, analysis management and data transfer such as enrollment, registration, discipline, among other things, at headquarters without physical appearance.
And to also maintain funding for the Free Education Policy and other education programmes, the state did not default in matching funding from the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC.
In fact, since assumption of office in 2015, the Ganduje administration has never failed to provide its matching funding for the development of education, even as the state has already paid part of the 2021 funding.
The state government has also been strengthening other sources of funding for the policy that include resources from Education Trust Fund (ETF); five per cent of the state Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), one per cent of Local Government Areas (LGAs) Funds and community participation where individuals voluntarily donate to the basket of the policy all under the Kano Education Trust Fund (KETFUND) which is aimed at achieving equitable and inclusive access to quality education for all in accordance with Education 2030 Agenda of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Also as part of ensuring the workability of the component of the policy, the state government has ensured that the 2, 662 female secondary school teachers it sponsored have completed their accelerated National Certificate in Education (NCE) programme to improve their knowledge and skills.
Today, in Kano, 98 percent of primary school teachers in the state are qualified.
The feat was achieved through sustainable training and re-training of primary school teachers by his administration.
So far, almost all primary school teachers have obtained the lowest teaching qualification, Nigerian Certificate of Education (NCE).
The free education policy has provided opportunities to all school-age children to gain access to quality education for a full cycle of basic education.
This further consolidate the commitment of the state government to the Better Education Service Delivery for All (BESDA), a UNICEP programme, which is aimed at ensuring equitable access to basic education for out of school children.
Indeed, the launching of free, compulsory basic and secondary education policy has made serious impact with the reduction of the data of out-of-school children in Kano.
Over 500,000 out-of-school children in the state are now back to school, as the state’s school enrolment level increases tremendously.
The state witnessed a drastic increase in school enrolment, following numerous intensive interventions in the education sector.
The policy has proved effective and sustainable and provided opportunities to all school-age children to gain access to quality education for a full cycle of basic education.
Government has also encompassed post basic education into the policy with a view to giving more opportunity to the pupils that annually churn out from our primary schools and particularly for the girl child in compliance with the approved Kano State Girls Child Education Policy (KNGEP).
The political will and courage by Ganduje to holistically pursue the implementation of the policy is a clear deviation from the norm where the policy does not go beyond mere declaration and using it by others as a platform to siphon public funds.
This is because apart from financial issues that prove to be part of the greatest challenges in the implementation of free primary education in Nigeria, operating the policy has been very hard for the government at all levels since it is a matter of political convenience rather than planned education development.
Muhammad Garba is the commissioner for Information, Kano State.

6 years after, Buhari still struggling to fulfill campaign promises
It is exactly six years that the Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration came on board after wresting power from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which was on the saddle of power in the country for 16 years.
President Buhari first defeated the PDP candidate and former President Goodluck Jonathan in 2015 because of what pundits see as his inability to solve the country’s major challenges, especially the increasing state of insecurity, the rising rate of unemployment and the scourge of corruption.
The feat was achieved because majority of Nigerians believed that a central government led by Buhari would fulfill all its campaign promises.
The incumbent president focused his 2015 election campaigns on three key matters affecting the country – corruption, insecurity and the need to revive the economy.
Two of these three campaign promises were well captured among the eight cardinal programmes the APC manifesto pledged to offer Nigerians if voted into power in 2015.
The programmes include war against corruption, food security, accelerated power supply, integrated transport network, free education, devolution of power, accelerated economic growth and affordable health care.
Despite the fact that the three campaign promises deliberately chosen by Mr President have not been fully realized, against the high expectations of Nigerians, Buhari was re-elected for a second term of four years in 2019.
He defeated another PDP candidate and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar in a keenly contested election.
Buhari repeated these promises during the re-election campaign and sued for more understanding from Nigerians based on past mistakes and unforeseen circumstances that affected his first term of four years.
Analysts say the re-election was made possible because of support from his die-hard supporters who believe that he should be given more time, and the quest for power rotation to the southern part of the country.
But six years down the line, the three key electoral promises seem not to have been redeemed.
There has been a resurgence of insurgency – terrorism in the North-East, banditry and cattle rustling in the North-West and North-Central, kidnapping and farmers-herders clashes in the South-West and other parts of the country, attacks on government buildings, offices of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security formations in the South-East.
Gunmen kill citizens, vigilantes and security agencies, especially policemen and soldiers in various parts of the country.
The activities of secessionist groups in the South-West and South-East have added another dimension to the challenges of insecurity in the country.
In fact, Boko Haram, bandits, kidnappers, gunmen, cultists and members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) have continued to constitute major threats to the country.
In view of the challenges, President Buhari had to concede to the calls for the change of security chiefs and brought in a new Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor; Chief of Army Staff, the late Lieutenant-General Ibrahim Attahiru, now replaced by Major-General Farouk Yahaya; Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Zubairu; Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Amoo; and the acting Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba.
On the fight against corruption, the anti-graft agencies, especially the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), seem to have fared well.
However, the demand for accountability and transparency in the handling of recovered loots and property has put a snag on its achievements.
This is said to have been a major reason Ibrahim Magu was sacked as the acting boss of the EFCC after a presidential probe on alleged diversion of recovered loot and replaced with a substantive chairman, Abdurasheed Bawa.
On the pursuit of economic growth, the target has been hindered by the drop in the price of crude oil, recessions and the COVID-19 pandemic in the midst of skyrocketing increase in the prices of commodities.
The Buhari government has underperformed – Dr Kari
When contacted, a political analyst, Dr Abubakar Kari, while assessing the current government based on its main campaign promises, said the Buhari administration had underperformed in the three key areas of the economy, fight against corruption and tackling insecurity.
Dr Kari, who said President Buhari had performed below expectation these past six years, added that he had “not delivered on his promises to the satisfaction of friends and foes alike in those areas he had personally chosen as his signature projects.”
He said, “Buhari rode on the crest of unprecedented popular public support.
Most Nigerians believed he was the answer to the myriad of problems that beset the country, prior to his ascension.
His experience as a former military leader, reputation as a man of impeccable character and integrity, and the fact that for 12 years he struggled to win the presidency, persuaded many Nigerians that he was the right person for the job.
“The economy has remained in the doldrums.
But to be fair to Buhari, he has been unlucky to encounter great and daunting challenges he clearly never envisaged.
At the beginning of his first term, elements from the Niger Delta embarked on willful blowing and destruction of pipelines and flow stations, at a time, bringing production level to less than a third of the country’s OPEC quota.
Foreign exchange plunged to the nadir.
The country also got trapped in the cyclical global recession twice.
“To cap it all, the devastating effects of the COVID-19 pandemic are still being felt.
But beyond that, the management of the economy has been less than convincing and has been characterised by policy inconsistencies and contradictions.
The consequence, simply put, is that on a scale, Nigerians are worse off today than they were six years ago.
“The verdict is really out on what the true situation is in regard to fighting corruption.
Spectacular successes have really been recorded within the period, particularly in terms of processing, prosecution and conviction of corrupt persons, quantum of proceeds of corruption seized and the calibre of the politically exposed persons that got into trouble – otherwise untouchables – including a sitting Senate president and Chief Justice of the Federation.
“The snag is that massive and pervasive corruption is still going on almost unabated, and some of those allegedly involved include persons very close to the president and top government officials.
“In the area of insecurity, even Buhari’s most diehard supporters are aware that Nigeria is far less secure than in 2015.
Armed non-state actors (so-called armed bandits, kidnappers, self-styled regional/ethnic security outfits, unregulated self-help groups, even some who go by the name unknown gunmen), are having a field day killing, maiming, destroying private and public property and dispossessing people.
The Boko Haram insurgency has become intractable (even though bombs no longer go off outside the main theater of war).
It is truly frightening and appalling and unbelievable that this could happen under Buhari!”
Buhari scores above average – VON DG
However, the director-general (DG) of the Voice of Nigeria (VON) and a chieftain of the ruling APC from Enugu State, Mr Osita Okechukwu, scored the Buhari administration above average.
Okechukwu said the administration had invested and committed more human and material resources in agriculture more than any other regime in the post 1970 Nigeria.
He said the process remained a precursor towards economic growth.
He, however, admitted that security was one of the downsides of the administration as President Buhari was equally disgusted over the general insecurity in the land.
Okechukwu said, “In reference to President Buhari’s regime in the last six years, without being immodest, one scores him above average.
However, one must not shy away from some downsides.
“Secondly, he has constructed more roads, railways and other physical infrastructure more than the 16 locust years of the PDP.
These, to me, are veritable foundation for diversification of our economy and signpost to revamping our economy.
“The downside is palpable insecurity in the land.
Mr President, like most Nigerians, is disgusted over the general insecurity in our dear country.
“We must accept some unforced errors of ours.
However, Mr President neither generated the sharp decline of oil prices
immediately he took office in 2015 nor the COVID-19, which dealt heavy blow to our mono-economy and worsened the security situation in Nigeria.”
Also speaking, Dr A. Babalola, a senior lecturer and the head of the Department of Economics, Al-Hikmah University, Ilorin, said, “Inflation is one of the KPI.
Every Nigerian does not need the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) or Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) data to inform him of the price level as it is quite apparent and conspicuous that the price hike is biting hard on employees, not to talk of the unemployed.”
On security, Dr Babalola said, “We do not need security threat index to tell us the level of insecurity in the country.
Before 2015, banditry and kidnapping were quite insignificant, but as at today, even the children at homes understand the words and the so-called ransom more than their study in school.
What has caused this?
It is because insecurity has become the talk of the country.
“Summarily, the present administration has reduced corruption and improved the economy, but it is still not significant.
When it comes to insecurity, much needs to be done as it is really causing lots of rumple in Nigeria’s economy.”
Muideen Olaniyi

Motorists throng fuel stations in Kaduna as NUPENG joins warning strike
Motorists in Kaduna on Sunday thronged petrol stations to fuel their vehicles as the five-day warning strike directed by the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) in Kaduna State begins.
The NLC had on May 10
said it would ground all activities in the state from May 16, as it begins a warning strike over the irregular sack of civil servants by the state government.
Following the directive, the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) also directed its members to shut down services in Kaduna State from May 16.
This development has forced motorists into panic buying of fuel in preparation for the five-day warning strike.
A correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) who monitored petrol stations in some parts of the metropolis reports the presence of long queues in most of the stations visited.
Residents were also seen with containers of different sizes at different petrol stations struggling to buy the product.
Some of the petrol stations visited were A. M. Yola Petrol Station, Katsina Road, Mobil Petrol Station, Waff Road, A. Y. M Ashafa Petrol Station, Ahmadu Bello Way, Edi- Jen Petrol Station, Ahmadu Bello Way, among others.
Mr James Audu, one of the motorists at A. M. Yola filling Station, Katsina Road, told NAN that he decided to fill his vehicle tank out of fear that filling stations may not operate from Monday.
“You are aware that NLC is commencing a five-day warning strike in Kaduna state from Monday
and you know how critical petrol is to our movement and survival.
“I am here to fill my vehicle tank and a 25 litre container for my generator at home to ensure power supply during the strike days as electricity supply had already been suspended,” he said.
Another motorists, Mr Ibrahim Rasheed, also said that the panic buying of the essential product was necessary to keep businesses going during the strike.
“I am a fashion designer and need power to work.
already electricity supply has been suspended, meaning that people like us will have to resort to generator and that cannot happen without fuel,” he said.
The Station Manager, Mr Rayyanu Ahmad, told NAN that they are selling the product because he was yet to receive official directive from the union to suspend services.
“But I assure you we will close down as soon as I receive directive to do so, may be later in the day.
“It will be painful for everyone
but we hope for a positive response from the state government at the end of the warning strike,” Ahmad said.
Electricity supply in the state had been suspended since 12 a.m on Sunday.
The management of Kaduna Electric, in a statement, informed its customers that the Transmission Company of Nigeria has knocked off all its 33KV lines in the state in compliance with the NLC directive.
(NAN)

Kogi police nab tricycle operator for robbing passenger
The Kogi State Police Command has arrested a tricycle operator, Abdulmumin Jimoh, for robbing his passenger of  two Android phones, some cash and an ATM card in the Lokoja metropolis.
Spokesman for the Kogi State Police Command, DSP Williams Ovye Aya, who disclosed this in a statement Thursday, said the suspect was arrested by operatives of Operation Puff Adder, through synergy with members of the vigilante.
He said the arrest was made following reports that the suspect together with his gang members now at large, robbed a passenger who boarded the suspect’s tricycle from the Dumanis Church junction, along Ganaja road to Ganaja, Lokoja metropolis.
He said it was immediately after the 200 units junction, one of the gangs who posed as a passenger covered the victim’s  mouth and put a knife on her neck, in which they dispossessed her of two Android phones, voters card, ATM card and a sum of N10,000 cash.
“It was thereafter the tricycle operator now pushed her out of the Keke and ran away.
And immediately, the victim stopped another tricycle and narrated her ordeal.
They both raised alarm which attracted the police on patrol in the area.
According to him, on sighting the police, the tricycle operator and his robbery gang abandoned the tricycle with registration number MPA 139 VC and escaped, saying the tricycle was recovered and taken to the police station.
Aya said during interrogation, the suspect confessed to the crime, saying efforts were ongoing to arrest other members of the syndicate that are still at large, adding that the suspect would be arraigned in court upon completion of the investigation.

North Korea pull out of World Cup qualifiers
North Korea have pulled out of next month’s qualifying matches for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, the Asian Football Confederation said Sunday.
“The Asian Football Confederation has today confirmed the withdrawal of the DPR Korea Football Association from the Asian Qualifiers for the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022,” the AFC said in a statement.
No reasons were given for the withdrawal but South Korean media reported earlier this month that Pyongyang had said it would skip the qualifiers over coronavirus fears.
The COVID-19 pandemic has forced most of the second round of Asia’s preliminary tournament for the Qatar World Cup to be postponed until June.
The AFC said last month it would change the format of the tournaments so that each group of five nations would play in one host country.
South Korea was selected as the centralised venue host for Group H, which is led by Turkmenistan and also included the two Koreas, Lebanon and Sri Lanka.
North Korea were fourth in Asian qualifying Group H, but only a point behind Group H leaders Turkmenistan with three games still to be played before their withdrawal.
The AFC said a decision would be made later on the standings in Group H after referring the matter to FIFA’s organising committee for competitions.
The tournament doubles up as qualifiers for the 2023 Asian Cup, to be held in China.
Pyongyang’s
decision to pull out comes nearly a month after the country said it would not go to this year’s
Tokyo Olympics, citing concerns over the pandemic.
North Korea was one of the first countries to close its borders more than a year ago to protect itself from the virus that first emerged in neighbouring China.
(AFP)

2023: IFA calls for building ramps, handrails at polling units
The Inclusive Friends Association (IFA) has urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to bring polling units (PUs) down from the verandas of public buildings to the ground floors or build ramps and handrails at the PUs located in public buildings to make them more accessible for Persons with Disabilities (PWDs).
The Executive Director of IFA, Grace Jerry, made the call weekend in Abuja, ahead of the November Anambra State governorship elections and the 2023 General Elections.
She was speaking at the just-concluded National Stakeholders roundtable meeting themed, “Implementing the disability law nationwide in relation to election accessibility and political participation for PWDs with Focus on the Anambra, Ekiti and Osun off-cycle elections” organised by the IFA, Participate Today and the National Endowment for Democracy (NED).
She noted that the political participation is clearly rooted in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which mentions the right of every person to equal participation in public affairs, the right to vote and to be elected, and the right to access to public service.
“Though IFA made important progress to strengthen the capacity of persons with disabilities to advance their rights and participate in political processes and to improve government inclusion of and responsiveness to persons with disabilities in Nigeria, we are yet to get to the desired target,” Jerry said.
On his part, INEC Director, Voter Education and Publicity Department, Mr. Nick Dazang, said that in time past the commission has made it a priority to deliver free fair and credible elections.
“I am not saying that we have fully succeeded in that
but after making some incremental improvements on that we have also tried to address the issue of marginalized groups and we have taken concrete steps to mainstream gender and marginalized groups.
We will continue to make sure that we mainstream all group because our elections will not be complete if all and sundry do not participate.
“Because of the premium the commission places on mainstreaming gender and all marginalized groups, following its re-organization, it has created a new department of Gender and Inclusivity.
So, this shows you that INEC is not just talking, it is working the talk and INEC is a solid partner you can hold on,” Dazang said.
Also, the House of Representatives Committee on Electoral Matters, Dr. Aishatu Jibril Duku, said, “We must insist on the full implementation of the Discrimination Against Persons with Disabilities (Prohibition) Act, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability and imposes sanctions including fines and prisons sentences on those who contravene it.”

How Kano is becoming Nigeria’s rice milling hub
With many rice mills springing up in Kano State, coupled with increase in production, the state is gradually becoming the hub of rice, not only in Nigeria but West Africa.
The recent rice farming activities in Kano have been seen as a record-breaking achievement in the history of Nigeria, as far as that sector is concerned.
As one of the staple foods in Nigeria, the consumption of rice is said to have increased to 4.7 per cent, almost four times the global consumption growth.
This triggered a revolution in the sector; hence the increase in rice milling in Kano.
One of the mega rice mills in Kano 
From 2015 to 2020, no fewer than 230 micro, small, medium and large rice mills have emerged.
A lot of the existing ones have also been upgrading their capacities.
In places like Kura, Gezawa, Bunkure, Garun Malam and Tudun Wada local government areas of the state, it is common to see a cluster of small-scale rice millers doing business.
New mega rice mills with thousands of metric tons per month capacity are also on the increase.
The recent one has a 160-ton-per-day capacity.
It is the first mega rice mill owned by a woman in Kano State.
In the past seven years, the Nigerian government, in collaboration with the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN), boosted the production of rice by according it high priority.
In 2017, production got to 3.7million tons.
It was reported that rice milling revolution in Kano started in 2014 when 70,000 farmers were mapped out to benefit from the year’s dry season farming programme in the state’s agricultural scheme.
It was in conjunction with the then Federal Ministry of Agriculture’s Agricultural Transformation Agenda (ATA).
It is also believed that the achievement recorded in the production of rice in Kano is a result of various agricultural policies introduced by the Federal Government.
For example, the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP), through various associations, as well as the ATA, encouraged many people to venture into agriculture, especially dry season rice farming.
This resulted in an increase in the number of rice farmers in the state as demand increased.
With several efforts the Federal Government put in place through the ABP, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) aggregator scheme, Nigeria Incentive-based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL), which is a $500million non-bank financial institution, wholly-owned by the CBN, among non-governmental interventions, in 2019, Nigeria moved from the status of the largest importer of rice to being the largest producer of rice (paddy) in Africa, with an average production volume of 8million metric tons.
It is also on record that as at 2019, Nigeria ranked as the first in Africa and the 14th largest producer of rice in the world, with China being the top producing country.
According to Iliyasu Nazifi, an engineer and young entrepreneur, in the last five years, rice production received the boost it had never received in the history of agriculture in Nigeria, which gave rise to the many milling factories in Kano State.
Nazifi is the chief executive officer of the Golden Star Rice Mill and a member of the Rice Processors Association of Nigeria (RIPAN).
It was also said that this achievement wouldn’t have been possible without the commitment and support of members and leadership of the RIFAN across all the states in Nigeria.
According to the chairman of the RIFAN in Kano State, Alhaji Abubakar Haruna, Nigerians were initially estimated to have been consuming more than five million metric tons of rice each year, with a significant portion coming from imports.
He further revealed that demand, which was growing faster than supply, driven by factors like population growth and urbanisation, actually gave birth to the strategies adopted by the government to ensure increased production, which would lead to self-sufficiency.
“The development of rice value chain in Nigeria has immeasurably reduced urban-city migration and youth restiveness as many of the youths are gainfully engaged in agricultural practices,’’
Haruna said.
Also, the treasurer of the RIFAN in the state, Malam Hussaini Shu’aibu, revealed that the decision of the Federal Government to close Nigeria’s land borders against rice importation created a huge demand and created awareness for more domestic b mills.
It was also revealed that the state’s rice production capacity increased; hence the establishment of mills.
“Very soon, Kano State will move from being the centre of commerce to that of farming and processing,’’ Shu’aibu said.
However, the Kano State Chamber of Commerce, Industries, Mines and Agriculture (KACCIMA) is worried that  the state has only recorded industrial boom in rice milling while other sectors suffer great setback.
According to the first deputy president of the KACCIMA, Ambassador Usman Darma, most industries in Kano are closed down due to electricity issues and financial challenges associated with policies of some commercial banks.
He added that only few of the industries operate in full capacity.
“Virtually 85 per cent of industries in Kano are not working.
The only expansion so far recorded is in rice mills, and that is because government policies have been favourable to the operators.
However, with the recent visit by a combined team of the National Assembly and the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, we are hopeful that the issue would be addressed in due course,’’ he said.

Boko Haram kills two Cameroonian soldiers in Nigeria
Two Cameroonian soldiers deployed to Nigeria were killed late Saturday in a Boko Haram attack in northeastern Borno state, two Nigerian military sources said Sunday.
The insurgents, on foot and in several trucks fitted with machine guns, attacked Nigerian soldiers outside the town of Wulgo.
Cameroonian soldiers were then also attacked after deploying from across the border to assist.
“Two CDF (Cameroonian Defence Force) soldiers were killed in the 40-minute gunfight with the Boko Haram terrorists,” a Nigerian military source said.
“Another three CDF soldiers and a Nigerian soldier were injured in the fight,” said the military officer, in an account confirmed by a second Nigerian military source.
An armoured vehicle belonging to the Nigerian army and two Boko Haram trucks were destroyed in the fight while “several” jihadists were “neutralised”, the second military officer said.
The jihadists launched the attack from the nearby Wulgo forest, a known Boko Haram hideout.
The jihadist insurgency in northeast Nigeria has killed 36,000 people and displaced around two million from their homes since 2009, according to the United Nations.
The violence associated with Boko Haram and its splinter group ISWAP, the Islamic State West Africa Province, has spread to neighbouring Chad, Cameroon and Niger.
Earlier this month, ISWAP claimed in a statement that it used two vehicle-borne improvised explosive devices, killing and wounding 30 soldiers near Wulgo, a claim that AFP could not independently verify.
In 2015, a regional military coalition, the Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) was tasked with fighting the insurgents.
Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari replaced the country’s top military commanders in January in a sudden overhaul after months of pressure over deteriorating security.
(AFP)

Foundation trains 200 Enugu entrepreneurs
At least 200 youths in Udi Local Government Area of Enugu State have graduated from a three-month Youth ICT and Skill Acquisition Project (YISAP) of the Baywood Foundation.
The young people were trained on entrepreneurship/vocational skills such as ICT, photography, video-editing, barbing, digital marketing, graphics design, confectionery, making of household essentials and consumables, fascinators, hats and other small scale enterprises.
The foundation, in January, 2021, got a $98,925 grant from the Coca-Cola Foundation to empower 600 youths in Enugu State.
The 200 trained youths are from Enugu West Senatorial Zone, while 200 youths will be trained in Igboeze North Council (Enugu North Senatorial Zone) and 200 youths of Enugu East Council (Enugu East Senatorial Zone).
At least 100 exceptional youths will get a seed grant of N45,000 and N60,000 each from the 600 participants selected for the project.
In his remarks, the Country Director of Baywood, Mr Chukwudi Ojielo, said: “I challenge youths of Udi Area Council, especially our graduating youths, to stand tall and project their businesses to the world through the social media marketing skills they learnt from the training.”
He also said 33 out of the 200 graduating youths with outstanding performance would be given grants.
The Chairman of Udi Council, Chief Ifeanyi Agu, advised the graduating youths to put in their best and take advantage of the opportunity provided by what they had learnt.
A beneficiary, Mrs Anthonia Ugwu, encouraged her fellow youths to utilise the skills they had learnt to double their influence and income in life.

How to Avoid Scams If You Are Playing at an Online Casino in Nigeria
Nigeria is a country that offers a lot of activities for people to enjoy.
Many love to visit this country, and they love the opportunities that are available to them, especially the ability to play at an online casino.
There are a limited number of land-based casino options available within Nigeria, and you may want to enjoy playing roulette, poker, or on a slot machine.
The online options that are available are spectacular and enable you to be able to do that.
However, there are online casinos out there that are not operating with integrity.
Some you should have doubts about, but you may not know exactly which casinos are legitimate and which ones may scam you.
You can check this list for a complete guide to the best Nigerian online casinos and this is a great place to start, but you should be aware that there are some unscrupulous people operating within the country.
With all that said, here is what you need to watch out for when searching for the right online casino in Nigeria; user-friendliness, reliable and safe payment, various withdrawal methods, variety of games, valid licenses from local or international authorities and efficient customer service and support.
Nigeria is like any other land.
There are criminals out there looking to scam you, especially in the cyber world.
Many claims that they are a legitimate casino or are offering you legitimate investment opportunities, only to steal your money and your identity.
This is why you need to do a little searching and research to ensure that you are not going to be scammed.
If you think about it, there are literally thousands of people who are being scammed online every day.
This is an international problem, and it does not matter where you live.
People in the United States, China, England, Brazil, and even in Nigeria are being cheated by these scammers.
So, it pays to have a plan in mind of how you will protect yourself from getting taken.
With the rapid technology growth, it is important to always be safe and secure when browsing the net.
The first thing to consider when choosing an online casino is to pick an option that is a well-recognized, international option.
There are some online casinos that have earned licenses in several countries across the globe.
They have decades of building up a reputation and have proven themselves to be an operator that you can trust.
This is a great place to start.
You know that if they are operating within the country, that they are doing things the right way.
They have millions of customers who can attest to that, and that is something you want to depend upon.
To operate legally within the country of Nigeria, the online casino operator must get a license from the Nigerian government.
If they do not have that, then they are not legally authorized to operate.
The site should have information that tells you about their license and the process they have gone through to receive it.
If you do not see this or if you just one additional information to ensure that they are realistically the bearers of a license, you can check with the national government website or contact the national government of Nigeria.
They will let you know who licensed online casino operators are, who are legally able to provide the services within the country’s borders.
There is an old adage that says that if something is too good to be true, then it likely is.
If an online operator is providing or promising all kinds of guarantees or promises that sound outrageous, they probably are.
No casino operator is going to offer 10 times in a match to your initial deposit, as an example.
They are not going to guarantee that players win 50% of the time.
None of those things are realistic.
If you are being promised something that sounds really sensational and an offer that seems almost too good to pass up, you should pass it up.
You are saving yourselves a lot of trouble by doing so.
Payment options are one of the biggest indicators to you of the ability to trust an online casino.
If they are able to accept such payment options as Visa or MasterCard, then you have a little bit more confidence that this is a trustworthy site.
These credit card companies vet businesses and organisations that accept payments from these credit card companies.
If they are apprehensive about allowing players to use a particular site or if they have had issues with that site before, then you know your MasterCard or Visa is going to deny your ability to deposit funds there.
This is one of the best indicators that you are about to be scammed.
You may not be the most tech-savvy person, but there are things that you know that must be in place for you to be able to safely access the website.
Things such as the HTTPs certificate and quality connections between your computer and the server to the online casino are important.
They should be using technology that protects account information and has sensational cybersecurity.
These are a few things you can pay attention to that will help you to know whether you should trust an online casino or not.

Ogun speaker faults Lawan over Southern govs meeting
The Speaker of the Ogun State House of Assembly, Olakunle Oluomo, has faulted the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan’s, comment over a meeting and resolutions reached by Southern governors.
Seventeen Southern governors met last week in Asaba, Delta State, where they called for the convocation of a national dialogue, demanded bold steps to restructure the country, a total ban on open grazing and also asked President Muhammadu Buhari to address the nation following the spate of killings and agitations in the country.
However, Lawan in a reaction, accused the governors of “retreating to regionalism” to address a national issue that should be collectively decided upon.
The Ogun speaker who spoke in Abeokuta at the weekend, however, said Lawan’s comments were not healthy.
“This is the first time in the history of the country when the governors of the Southern part of Nigeria or any governor whatsoever would come out openly on this matter and align themselves with the request and demand of their people, and I don’t know when emphasising or airing what your people want becomes a crime in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
“So, I don’t understand what prompted such reaction from the senate president.
It shows that he has a pre-meditated mind
, otherwise what he is supposed to do is to collate the ideas, the thinking, the agitations and opinions of the generality of Nigerians, particularly those who are elected by the people to represent them, and make the National Assembly work towards achieving that goal instead of condemning them,” he said.

City look to clinch title in Champions League dress rehearsal
Manchester City will be crowned Premier League champions if they beat Chelsea this afternoon in a game which is now a dress rehearsal for the Champions League final.
Victory at the Etihad Stadium would allow Pep Guardiola’s City side to open up an insurmountable 16-point lead over second-placed Manchester United, who have just five matches remaining.
But while the title is now a formality for City, the Chelsea game takes on extra significance after the two clubs earned their places in the May 29th Champions League final in Istanbul.
German coach Thomas Tuchel has had an extraordinary impact on Chelsea since joining the club three months ago and can also look forward to an FA Cup final against Leicester City on 15 May.
The West London club reached that final by beating Manchester City in the semifinal and that result is fresh in Tuchel’s mind.
“This doesn’t give us the upper hand but it gives us a good feeling
, it gives us self-confidence,” said Tuchel, who has described City as the benchmark for his team.
“We wanted to close the gap to Manchester City and in this one match in the semifinal we did in a very impressive performance, and we will need exactly the same level of performance again.
But it gave us belief,” he said.
Chelsea also have plenty to play for on Saturday as they look to secure a top-four finish and guarantee a place in next season’s Champions League.
Tuchel’s side are currently in fourth place but have just a three-point advantage over fifth placed West Ham United.
On Sunday, Manchester United start a run of three games in five days, with a trip to Aston Villa.

Is Nigeria sealing her fate as a pariah state?
In December 2019, I wrote an article about Thomas Cook, arguably the first-ever travel agency and how that firm accidentally established tourism as we know it today.
See https://opinion.premiumtimesng.com/2019/12/23/thomas-cook-collapse-lessons-for-nigeria-by-tope-fasua/.
The company collapsed earlier that year, sending shockwaves across the world.
The travellers’ cheques part of the business had since been sold to Travelex and that is still thriving as bureaux de change in many airports in the world even as global travel has taken a hit in the hands of COVID-19.
Well, many critical thinkers believe there is an agenda or idea to totally curb travel as we know it – by de-democratising annual vacation travels as conceived by the Thomas Cooks of this world – such that only the super-rich will retain the privilege.
With local and international airlines groaning and many of them in the throes of death presently, one can only expect a shakeout that leaves only a few remaining, many routes shut and perhaps all travel will commence from business class.
Some countries may even be shut out entirely if per capita and
disposable income in them is deemed inadequate to service the required profit of the airline, many of whom are racking up losses presently.
Last week, news came out that some $601 million of airline funds were stuck in Africa as a result of these lockdowns and the inability to fully bounce back.
Also, we can see that in Nigeria, some 30 minutes flights now cost as high as N80,000 for coaches (economy), even as in-flight entertainment has been fully cut out.
Times are sad.
In the referenced article, I wrote about how the UAE – especially Dubai – opened a new vista for travel and enlightenment for sub-Saharan Africans, after we had been totally traumatised, ‘defrauded’ and disrespected by westerners.
The pain of multiple visa fees being lost to embassies and multiple honest applications being shockingly rejected, became a bit dulled when travel to the UAE became democratised for whoever wanted to go.
Indeed, visas were very liberal in the beginning – I reckon they allowed even Nigerians to collect visas on arrival – but gradually things got worse for Nigerians as they normally do everywhere.
In time, Nigerians were given one of the strictest visa regimes to the UAE and we were excluded entirely from certain types of long-stay visas.
The next level perhaps, is for the UAE to start inviting Nigerians for physical interviews before visas are granted (like the USA, the UK and the rest do).
Of course, Europe and the USA remained suspicious and difficult for us to visit – even for those who could afford it and just needed the invaluable education that comes from travelling.
Business travel remained dicey as well because our reputation for scams and all sorts preceded us.
Anyone who has attempted some level of international business will be able to confirm that they sometimes meet with stonewalls and there are many people around the world who will immediately put up a shutter once they know you are Nigerian.
Many prefer to deal with Ghanaians and an increasing volume of our businesses – especially exports – are now routed through our West African neighbour because the world believes they adhere more to standards.
Let me itemise the issues.
International travel remains very important and cathartic for the reasons identified by Thomas Cook in the 1800s – in the heady days of colonialism – for the following reasons:
However, as far as Nigeria is concerned, the following are the problems that we give the world, which has turned us into undesirable elements, and if we are not careful, we are at the cusp of becoming a proper global pariah: 
To be continued next week

Suspected IPOB members attack FCID in Abia
The Nigeria Police Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID) located at Umuagu, Umuahia in Abia State is under attack by gunmen believed to be members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB).
The gunmen, numbering over 50, were half-naked.
Some were seen hanging live cock around their neck while many of them are armed with AK47 rifles.
They attacked the security formation and set it ablaze.
A security source told our correspondent that a combined team of the military and Police engaged the hoodlums afterwards.
He added that stray bullets killed some people in the process of a gun battle between them.
Meanwhile, soldiers have taken over Umuahia as of the time of this report.
It could be recalled that Umuahia residents woke up seeing men of the Nigerian Army patrolling major streets in Umuahia and manning areas believed to be flashpoints.

Traffickers excrete 191 pellets of cocaine, heroin at Lagos airport
Two suspects arrested by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos have excreted 191 pellets of heroin and cocaine while under observation.
This is coming barely two weeks after a Madrid, Spain-bound trafficker, Okonkwo Chimezie Henry, excreted 113 wraps of cocaine after his arrest at the same airport.
Spokesman of the agency, Femi Babafemi, said on Sunday in Abuja that on April 10, 2021, during the outward screening of passengers on Ethiopian airline to Italy, NDLEA operatives at MMIA intercepted and referred one Chukwudi Destiny for scanning and the scan result proved positive to drug ingestion.
“Consequently, he was placed under excretion observation and in the process; he excreted 92 pellets of heroin with a total weight of 1.3kg.
“Also on 12th April 2021, during the inbound examination of consignments on Ethiopian airline cargo flight from South Africa, operatives at SAHCO import shed made a seizure of 11.550kg of heroin cleverly packed and concealed in corn flakes cartons.
Four clearing agents are in custody in connection to the seizure,” Babafemi said.

Kwara office arrests 109 suspected drug traffickers in 3 months
The Kwara State Command of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has said 109 suspected drug traffickers have been arrested with 48 grammes of cocaine seized between January and April this year.
According to the State Commander of the agency, Mr Ambrose Umoru, while declaring open a workshop on the Effects of Drug Abuse and Trafficking on Security, Social and Economic Growth of Kwara State, a total of 331.261 Kilogrammes of assorted drugs and five grammes of Swinol from the suspects have been seized from suspects.
The programme was organised by the NDLEA in collaboration with a non-governmental organisation in Ilorin.
Umoru said for the first time in the last 10 years, 22 and 26 grammes of cocaine were recovered from one Sherifat Yusuf and Yusuf Abdullahi respectively.
The state commander explained that during the period under review the command also recorded two convictions while 32 cases are pending in court.
He noted that over 46 of the suspects arrested during raids who are drug users have been counseled and released.
In his address, the Commissioner of Police, Kwara State Command, Muhammed Lawal-Bagega, represented by CSP Fayola Temitope, urged parents to have interest in the activities of their children to prevent them from abusing drugs.
Earlier in his address, the coordinator of the workshop, Mr Samuel Rotimi, said the essence of the programme is to share ideas on how to reduce the cases of drug abuse to the barest minimum.

Food Security: OCP Africa partners soil institute to solve soil problems
OCP Africa and the Nigerian Institute of Soil Science (NISS) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding on management of problematic soils in Nigeria.
The MoU was signed in Abuja at the inception workshop to mark the kick-off of the project with the theme “Disseminating Innovative Technologies for Managing Problematic Soils in Nigeria.”
The OCP Africa Country Manager, Mr Caleb Usoh, said the collaboration had become necessary because the average productivity per hectare of farmlands in Nigeria is very low and has been attributed mostly to soil conditions, adding that, “This invariably is one of the reasons for food insecurity and poverty within the farming population.”
Represented by Oluwatoba Clement Asana, the production and Technical manager, he said that OCP, a Morrocan fertilizer giant, which supplies phosphate to NPK blending plants in the country under the Presidential Fertilizer Initiative, will fund the entire project.
“This, as it said, providing solutions to one of the farmer’s age-long menace will ensure food security and eradicate poverty within the farming population, as the understanding and management of problematic soil by farmers can lead to the development of the nation’s agricultural space and the rebound to sufficiency post-COVID-19.
This project aligns with other numerous OCP Africa farmer-centric projects aimed at bringing precision to the practice of agriculture in Nigeria and Africa as a whole,’’ he added.
The Registrar of the Nigeria Institute of Soil Science (NISS), Prof. Victor Okechukwu Chude, said the agency was committed to educating farmers on resolving the various issues associated with problematic soil.
He said the objective of the partnership was to undertake field assessment of the soil fertility status by carrying out survey through data collection and analysis of the soil samples in the target areas to promote the formation of crop and site specific fertilizer blends as a precision strategy to efficient food production

On neocolonialism and the victim-perpetrator narrative
It seems that we now live in a world where some fledgling scholars of African studies mostly domiciled in the West may well dismiss the works of individuals like Mao Zedong, Ho Chi Minh, Kwame Nkrumah, Sekou Toure, Amilcar Cabral, Walter Rodney, etc., as nothing but the victim narrative.
The victim-perpetrator narrative is a well-known topic in social psychology.
Perpetrators usually depict their victim’s behaviours as unnecessarily provocative.
As victims portray incidents from the perpetrator’s actions in a long-term framework that carries permanent implications, especially of harm, loss and grievance, the perpetrators would not stop at casting those actions as closed, isolated incidents that have no permanent implications.
Often, it is within this background that social conflicts arise, when a victim initially stifles anger and then finally responds to accrued series of provocations, while the perpetrator perceives (or pretends to perceive) only the sole incident and regards the livid response as an unwarranted overreaction.
In the end, victim-perpetrator roles are associated with dissimilar subjective readings.
The ultimate goal of the modern coloniser is to encourage a selective reading of history and to categorise certain historical accounts as having little or no significance to the African predicament, and to also thwart any real opportunities for further research on the colonial past.
Going by their research interests, African academics in the social sciences and the humanities who live in the West are living examples of the kind of narratives that can be put forward for their careers to advance.
These tolerable narratives are those which typically stereotype Africa as a place of corruption, war, hunger, disease, etc.
The narrative is always explicit and it does not encourage an attempt to revisit, say, why the peach fruit from the Devil’s Punchbowl on the banks of the Mississippi river is not eaten!
The fledgling scholars of African studies domiciled in the West often push narratives that seek to justify Africans as being the sole cause of their country’s woes.
They tell Africans that there is no Western influence on African leaders sponsoring expensive weddings for their children or travelling abroad for medical reasons, all at the expense of the common man.
Approved, Africa is complicit in many aspects of its own underdevelopment.
But it is also illogical to assume that understanding the complicity of the other is to deny Africa’s own complicity.
We must learn to discuss two or more issues that take a departure from each other, concurrently.
All history is important and none can be said to be moribund or obsolete, and people study history because it is critical for them to understand societal transformations and how people developed into what they are today.
The principle of uniformitarianism in earth sciences, which suggests the gradualist historical concept that the present is the key to the past seems prevalent in the social sciences and the humanities.
For example, Vanderbilt University professor of modern African studies, Moses Ochonu, argues that Ivorians may be blamed for the political conflict that led an armed rebellion to split their nation into two, but France, the former colonial power in the country cannot be cleared in reassuring the Felix Houphouet-Boigny to erect a Roman Catholic basilica in Yamoussoukro for an amount roughly comparable to his country’s annual budget.
Similarly, Nigerians could be blamed for allowing politicians in the country to steal from the national treasury at the expense of realising moral universals such as persistent electric power and effective hospitals, but how do we acquit the complicity of Western banks and businesses in enhancing such classic corruption?
Several other examples abound.
We may not be aware that Nigeria is one of the main target markets for universities in the United Kingdom.
There is even some history to demonstrate how events in Nigeria could affect the survival of an institution of higher learning in the United Kingdom.
Mrs. Elizabeth Ivase (1936-2019) was the first female minister in northern Nigeria.
She was minister of education in the Second Republic.
Because of the importance of her position, the University of Wales, where she once studied, invited her to Cardiff.
There, she pledged that every year, the Nigerian government would sponsor a significant number of Nigerians to study at the University College Cardiff (UCC) where a variety of social science and humanities courses were undertaken.
From Ivase’s pledge, UCC administrators did the arithmetic.
The funds they would receive from Nigerian students within a few years were so enormous that they incurred a huge debt to build and expand their facilities.
They were so sure that funds from Nigeria would service the debt.
But a certain military officer named Muhammadu Buhari was lurking in the shadows, ready to disrupt the Republic that pledged them an enormous amount in tuition fees.
When Buhari disrupted the Republic, it was no news that UCC was on the verge of bankruptcy.
To make matters worse for UCC, Buhari’s government came with a policy that the idea of government scholarships being utilised overseas was economically imprudent especially for degree programs that can be conducted in Nigeria.
Thus, UCC was a UK university, which operated like a Nigerian university because they were so much accustomed to funds from Nigeria, until they learnt lessons out of experience.
To save what was left of UCC, the University of Wales Institute of Science and Technology (UWIST) merged with UCC so that they would have what was then to be called the University of Wales College of Cardiff (UWCC).
This incident was reported in a paper entitled “Financial management in universities: The lessons from University College, Cardiff”, published in Financial Accountability & Management (1988 Jun;4(2):99-112).
The paper describes the circumstances in which UCC reached the verge of bankruptcy, and it does refer to the relationship between UCC and Nigeria concerning international students.
The article was detailed on the events that brought about the crisis and the actions that took place afterward, including the merger with UWIST.
This institution is the present Cardiff University.
It is not in doubt that Western economies are still dependent on developing countries.
The nature of African economies perfectly suits developed countries.
If Africa were to process all its natural resources, many businesses in the developed countries may fail.
Many businesses in the United States and the United Kingdom are failing as China is increasingly becoming the world’s manufacturing hub.
It is also in the West’s economic interest for Africa to rely on imports and as safe haven for looted funds.
These have been the arguments of Kwame Nkrumah, Sekou Toure, Amilcar Cabral, Walter Rodney, etc.
The arguments are as relevant today as they were in the 1950s and 1960s.
Remarkably, it seems that international development experts and practitioners rarely challenge these Western hegemonic influences within the current global economic system.
Mohammed Dahiru Aminu is an Assistant Professor of Petroleum Chemistry at the American University of Nigeria.
He can be reached via mohd.aminu@gmail.com

Panic as explosion rocks Port Harcourt’s Mile 3 market
A suspected explosion has hit the popular Mile 3 Park market in Diobu axis of Port Harcourt, causing panic on Monday morning.
The incident took place at about 6:20am when traders were bringing in their goods into the park, witnesses said.
One person was injured in the leg, while few others sustained injuries in a stampede that followed.
Many traders in the market quickly parked their goods and left the park after the explosion.
The personnel of the Nigeria Police Force believed to have come from Nkpolu Police Division, Port Harcourt immediately moved to the scene of the incident.
When contacted the State Police Command, spokesperson, SP Nnamdi Omoni, said that he is yet to get detailed information about the incident.

Ayade’s defection: Armed policemen take over PDP secretariat
Armed policemen have been deployed to the premises of the People’s Democratic Party state secretariat in Calabar.
Their unusual presence was noticed since Saturday morning.
A bystander said, “The security operatives numbering about 50 came in unmarked pickup trucks and have blocked access from the nearby Kia motor shop all the way to the secretariat, located along the Murtala Muhammed Highway in Calabar.
Their presence might be to avert possible backlash as the landlord is said to be out to evict the party which reportedly was heavily indebted to him.
Critical watchers say their presence might not be unconnected with the recent defection of Gov Ben Ayade to the national ruling party, APC, and refusal of former governor of the state, Liyel Imoke, national and state lawmakers refusing to go with him.
Meanwhile, the immediate past State Chairman of the party who has also been serving as caretaker committee Chairman, Ntufam Inok Edim has given impression that the two-storey building might be converted for other use.
As a result, painters have started to change the colour of the building.
The PDP flag has been brought down.

Constitution review: Sultan wants unrestricted wearing of Hijab
Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, the Sultan of Sokoto, has advocated the use of Hijab by Muslim women, without restrictions and in total observance of the freedom of religion in the country.
The Sultan, who is also the President-General of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), stated this in Birnin Kebbi, on Tuesday, at the North West zonal public hearing on the Constitution Review organised by the House of Representatives for Stakeholders from Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara.
Abubakar wondered why the wearing of the Hijab would be a problem for others who were not using it, stressing that the other religions could also be encouraged to adopt what their religions order them to do.
“The most important issue is the issue of religion.
Almighty God created us to worship Him
and you must protect my rights as a Muslim, in whatever documents you are going to bring and there are no two ways about it.”
“I must have freedom to worship Allah the way Almighty says I should worship Him.
So, why do people make too much noise about Shariah and its implementation?
“It is all about our lives as Muslims from the day of our birth till we die.
So, look at the way to protect the interests of Muslims that constitute over 50 per cent of this nation’s population.
Whether in the North, East, South or West.
“I believe nobody should stop me from practising my religion and I must practice it to the best of my ability, without tampering with other religions or their freedom.
You can pick a stone and keep it in your home; that is the problem between you and your God, not me.
“There are so many cases where young girls were denied the right to use their hijabs in schools.
Why is it that the use of the hijab becomes a problem to those people who are not using hijab?
“On the other hand, we should even encourage persons of other faiths to do what their religions ordered them to do.
And that is how we will live in peace,” he said.
The Sultan, who also spoke on the role of traditional rulers, counseled the political class not to be afraid of assigning constitutional roles to traditional rulers because they had accepted changes that took place since the 1914 amalgamation of Nigeria and were ready to help.
“All of you knew that before 1914, there was no Nigeria; but there was Sokoto Caliphate, Kanem Borno Empire, Oyo Empire and Benin Kingdom.
“The amalgamation of all these led to Nigeria of today as they took power from the people and put it on a few civilians.
Why are politicians afraid of giving power back to the people they have been living and working with closely?”
“We have accepted the change and we are ready to help; the earlier we realise we can work together, the better for us.
The political class should know that we are not in any competition with them.
We are here to help and we are ready to help,” he said.
The Sultan added that with adequate political will, the insecurity bedeviling the country was surmountable.
He said the constitution review should also stress religious tolerance and freedom through which peace and stability would be promoted.
The Chairman of the committee, Adekoya Adesegun Abdulmajid, said since the return to democracy in 1999, there had been agitation and growing concern over the constitution, which many claimed, did not represent the interest of Nigerians since it was put together by the military.

2023: Electoral Hub tasks INEC on new depts
The Electoral Hub (TEH) has urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure that the two newly created departments of Voter Education and Publicity Department (VEP), and the Gender and Inclusivity Department (GID), are given clearer delineation of functions to prevent the bottleneck that led to their creation in the first place.
The Team Leader, TEH, an organ of the Initiative for Research, Innovation and Advocacy in Development (IRIAD), Princess Hamman-Obels, said on Tuesday in Abuja, in a statement, that the Voter Education, Publicity, Gender and Civil Society Liaison Department (VEP) had previously been saddled with too many responsibilities, resulting in a poor state of electoral inclusion.
She, however, commended INEC for the development, saying the organisation had earlier recommended in such in their publication ‘The Imperative for a Department of Electoral Inclusion in INEC’ and electoral advisory ‘Electoral Hub Recommendations to INEC’.
“We believe that the GID will provide room for deeper engagement and inclusion of women, youth, PWDs, IDPs, and other marginalized groups in the electoral process.
This should uphold the fundamental principles of participation, inclusion, and representation on which a healthy representative democracy is based.
“While hoping the purpose of the newly established department will also promote and increase the integrity and credibility of our electoral process, we call on INEC to review other recommendations in the advisory.
“These include uploading results sheets at ward, local government and state levels to the results viewing portal, uploading electoral data and materials on INEC’s website, enforcing COVID-19 protocols during elections, providing support to State Independent Electoral Commissions (SIECs), and deepening engagement with other stakeholders,” she said.
Hamman-Obels added that ahead of the 2023 elections, the organisation believe that these recommendations will help to further strengthen the integrity and credibility of the nation’s electoral process.

Fire service gets 20 new ambulances, 7 firefighting trucks
The Federal Fire Service, FFS, has received 20 newly procured Basic Life Support (BLS) modern ambulance buses and seven firefighting trucks.
The Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, while speaking at the commissioning ceremony of the equipment in Abuja on Tuesday, said they were part of the N10.4 billion infrastructure upgrade approved by the Federal Executive Council on March 3.
“The equipment being commissioned were part of the N10.4 billion infrastructure upgrade approved by the Federal Executive Council on March 3, comprising of 44 firefighting engines, 15 water tankers, 15 rapid intervention fire engines and 20 basic life support ambulances,” he said.
The minister said the arrival of the new ambulance buses and trucks and their deployment to the various zonal and state commands would enhance the service delivery of the FFS during emergencies.
“I will, therefore, urge the zonal and state commands where these vehicles would be deployed to reciprocate the federal government’s gesture, to optimize and effectively use these assets to improve fire cover, enhance emergency response operations, and complement State Fire Services operations while enhancing fire safety across the country,” he added.
Aregbesola lamented that the year 2020 into 2021 had witnessed frightening fire incidents, ranging from markets to gas and pipelines fires around the country.
“Statistics at our disposal show that the FFS in 2020 to the first quarter of 2021 received 4,541 fire calls from which regrettably, 158 lives were lost and property loss is estimated at N41.5 billion,” he said.
Aregbesola urged the state governors and the local government chairmen to invest in firefighting as well in order to reduce the loss of lives and property from fire incidents across the country.
Speaking earlier, the Controller-General of the FFS, Dr Liman Ibrahim, said the Service’s operational scope had spanned all the states of the federation and the FCT.
He said the FFS would commence deployment of its “personnel and assets to the 72 remaining Senatorial Districts” before the end of this year.
Dr Ibrahim said the Service had embarked on aggressive capacity building of its personnel to further position it for optimal service delivery in line with international best practice.
Meanwhile, two Deputy Controller-Generals (DCG Quintus G. Azogu and DCG Callistus Agu) and an Assistant Controller-General, ACG Thompson Mohammed, were pulled out to mark their retirement from the service.

NDLEA raises alarm over rising drug addiction in Jigawa
The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) in Jigawa State has expressed concerns over the rising rate of hard drugs consumption, especially among students of tertiary institutions, in the state.
The state’s Commander of NDLEA, Hajiya Maryam Gambo Sani, while speaking with Daily Trust, decried the increasing rate of drug consumption, which she said had heightened cases of delinquency in the state, and that it was only aggressive and mass enlightenment that would stem the tide.
She noted that between February and May, a total of 21.63 kilogrammes of banned substances were seized by the agency in the state, and 108 suspects nabbed: 103 males and five females.
She said, “The rate of consumption of drugs among youths in the state, to the best of my knowledge, is not decreasing at all, because the rate at which we make arrests of youths, especially students, is on the increase.
Anytime my officers go out for arrest they come back with a lot of users.
“Before you can get a dealer or a baron, you will get hundreds of users, so we can say the rate of consumption of drugs is on the increase.”
She added that while both secondary school and tertiary institution students were involved in the intake of illicit drugs, consumption was more rampant among students of tertiary institutions.
She further said, “Anytime we go out for raids, we arrest students.
So I intend to carry out this campaign to the doorstep of the university.
I hope to meet with the management of the university to discuss the issue of students involving in drug abuse.

5 policemen on trial for extorting N200,000 from Dubai-based Nigerian
Lagos State Police Command says it has commenced orderly room trial for five policemen at FESTAC Police Station for allegedly collecting N200,000 from a Dubai-based Nigerian who was home visiting his family.
The policemen had allegedly followed the victim to a local Point of Sale (POS) cash point in FESTAC where the said amount was extorted from him.
The policemen had accosted the victim while driving home in an Uber car.
It was learnt that the victim who recently arrived in the country from Dubai, and was also heading home from the airport, had shared the story of how police officers in FESTAC town stopped him and extorted N200, 000 from him.
#EndSARS promoter, Rinu, initially shared the story of the man on her Twitter handle.
She wrote, “A young Nigerian came back from the UAE this morning; took Uber from the airport to FESTAC and  bumped into Nigerian police officers who profiled; unlawfully searched his phone, harassed  and dragged him to their station.
See why some of us haven’t removed #EndSARS from our displays?
The man later took to Twitter to reveal his identity and also recount how the incident happened.
Lagos State Police Spokesman, Muyiwa Adejobi, who confirmed the incident, said all the policemen involved are being tried at the Command Headquarters, Ikeja.
Adejobi said the trial would determine the level of complicity of those involved.
According to Adejobi, “We have arrested all of them and the money recovered and returned to the man.
The policemen will soon face trial and be punished.
We have the whole team in the cell and they would be given orderly room trial,” he said.
Adejobi , however, did not disclose if the DPO of Festac would also be tried along with them for what people called “lack of supervision”.

Fayemi’s successor must come from Ekiti South — Sen. Olujimi
The Senator representing Ekiti South, Biodun Olujimi, has said Governor Kayode Fayemi’s successor must come from Ekiti South in 2022.
In a statement Wednesday, the senator said it is time to rotate power to the Southern zone of the state in the spirit of fairness and equity.
She argued that Ekiti North and Central zones had at various times produced the governor of the state while the South is left behind.
According to her, Ekiti South has been shortchanged in the choice of governor since creation of the state 24 years ago, and the “marginalisation” had led to under-development of the zone.
Olujimi, who denied insinuations in political quarters that she had entered into a pact ahead of the 2022 governorship poll in the state, said she remained irrevocably committed to the Ekiti South agenda.
“My attention has been drawn to various political undercurrents or misgivings making the rounds that I have entered into pacts on Ekiti governorship for 2022.
“I have not entered into any pacts with any individual or groups.
Any such ideas are unfounded and largely figment of imagination of such rumour mongers.
“I have been consistent on the fact that the PDP national leadership is on constructive engagement with Ekiti PDP leadership on how to resolve the impasse that arose from the ward congresses amicably,” she said.

How Nigeria can earn $700m yearly from sugar investment
The Dangote Sugar Refinery has urged the federal government to strictly implement the Backward Integration Policy (BIP) in the sugar industry as the nation can earn $700 million yearly from local production.
The Chairman of Dangote Sugar Refinery, Aliko Dangote, disclosed this Thursday at its 15th Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Lagos.
Dangote said, “If the National Sugar Master Plan is followed strictly and the players all follow the rules, the country will be better for it as Nigeria will save between $600m and $700m annually as forex.”
He stated that the backward integration policy of Dangote Sugar Refinery was recording appreciable progress.
Dangote told the shareholders that despite the COVID-19 pandemic, Dangote Sugar raised its production volume by 13.7 percent to 743,858 tonnes in the financial year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 654,071 tonnes in 2019.
He said it posted N214.3 billion turnover, a 33% increase over the N161.1bn in 2019, while in the same period Dangote Sugar posted a 6.9% increase in sales volume from 684,487 tonnes in 2019 to 731,701 tonnes in 2020.
The board then declared a dividend payment of N18.22bn to the shareholders, amounting to N1.50 kobo per ordinary share of 50 kobo each.
Dangote said, “Our growth continued to benefit from the sustained efforts to drive customer base expansion and several trade initiatives and investments.”
Gross profit increased by 40.4% to N53.75bn, compared to N38.29bn in 2019, while gross profit after taxation for the year increased by 33.2% to N26.70bn as against N22.36bn in 2019.
Dangote said the company had revised its sugar production target to 550,000 metric tonnes, achievable by 2024, in line with the revised plan on the BIP by the federal government.
The Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Dangote Sugar, Mr Ravindra Singhvi, said, “Our backward integration goal is to become a global force in sugar production, by producing 1.5M MT/PA of refined sugar from locally grown sugar cane for the domestic and export markets.”

Gunmen invade herders’ camap, shot 1, kidnap other in Abuja
Kidnappers have shot and injured a herder while abducting one other person after they  invaded a Fulani settlement near Yewuti village in Kwali Area Council in the early hours of Monday morning.
A resident of Yewuti community, simply identified as Salihu, said the incident happened around 12:23 am when the kidnappers came through the bush and attacked the Fulani settlement.
He said the kidnappers shot one of the herders in the leg, while they whisked away another at gunpoint, after the they scared the community residents with sporadic gun shots.
“One of the Fulani men was trying to escape when they shot him in the leg, while they took another herder away.
The injured herder was later taken to the hospital for treatment,” he said.
He said the family of the kidnapped victim was yet to establish contact with the kidnappers.
The spokesperson of the FCT police command ASP Maryam Yusuf, asked our reporter to send a text, which he did
but she was yet to reply to the text message sent to her.

The virtues of open grazing in Nigeria
Hyenas urinating upwind to stampede the cattle below — African proverb 
According to a popular adage when you are in a tunnel, what you need is light, not sound.
However, a light at the end of the tunnel on issues relating to cattle husbandry is long time coming, given the ill-tempered and sometimes uninformed exchanges on open grazing.
Self-styled experts are attempting to stampede governments to ban open grazing by advancing fictitious arguments such as no land for roaming cattle, data on land use shows otherwise or that ranching is the global best practice for keeping cattle, while in Sub-Saharan Africa, ranches exist only in parts of Ethiopia, Kenya and South Africa and falsely claiming that ranches have replaced pastoralism in Kenya and Ethiopia, while the Maasai and the Oromos respectively, still practice pastoralism in these countries.
Examination of data on land use will illustrate the logic of open grazing.
It is true that population has increased over the years, also more land has been put into farming and infrastructure, but analysis of data shows that for 20 million cattle and 200 million Nigerians, there is more than enough land.
For a start, Kano State, one of the most densely populated states is home to about one million cattle and there is relative tranquility.
Nigeria has a landmass of 92.3m ha, with 70.8m ha of agricultural area but only between 34 million to 35 million ha was cultivated last year.
For the sake of discussion, let’s look at maize production.
Available data shows that in 2020, only about 12m tons were produced.
Research findings have shown that 86 per cent of cereal biomass is made of materials not consumable by humans, but ruminants which cattle etc can convert into high-quality animal protein.
The implication is that over 50 million tons of crop residues will be wasted if not consumed by cattle.
Not to mention sorghum that accounts for 50 per cent of total cereal production and occupies about 45 per cent of the total land area devoted to cereal production.
Add to these, the millions of tons of grasses on fallow land and open range.
To access these fodders, which are mainly available only in situ, cattle must move and openly graze.
In most cases, this is done with the expressed permission of farmers for a fee.
Cattle generally move along moisture gradients (North in the wet and South in dry season respectively) on international transhumance stock routes recognised under usufructuary rights.
This explains why a kilo of beef sells for 1700 Naira.
Therefore, until the country has a programme to process these quality fodders, banning open grazing will be a ‘dog in the manger’ policy.
But I accept that rogue elements amongst herders engage in criminalities and the justice system has failed to prosecute them.
I also need to draw attention to a special category of pastoralists called agropastoralists.
These are small-scale livestock producers that settle in communities all over Nigeria.
They negotiate with members of the host community for land to build their homestead, grow crops and keep cattle.
During the cropping season, they kraal animals away from farms.
In fact, many of the animals in their herds belong to members of the host communities.
Clusters of these types of producers exist in the South, along Iseyin-Igangan axis in Oyo State, in Adada-Nkpologu-Adani- Iggah axis in Enugu State and along Awgu-Nkanu-Abakaliki axis in Ebonyi State to mention a few.
Some of these settlements have existed for upwards of 70 years, sequel to veterinary interventions that made it possible for cattle to stay year-round.
Many of these pastoralists are law abiding, they speak the local languages, their children are in schools, their wives engage in trades and have fully integrated into the community.
The consensus among livestock experts is that agropastoralism, peri-urban and urban livestock production systems account for over 90 per cent of dairy products in Sub-Sharan Africa.
These producers adopt research findings, benefit from government extension services and comply with public health regulations.
A ban on open grazing will destroy this system and uproot these producers.
And the reason is simply this.
A ban on open grazing literally means changing from agropastoralism to a zero grazing system called turkey.
In Zero grazing, animals are kept in stalls and fed entirely on purchased specially prepared rations to enable them to produce plenty of milk or fatten quickly.
Agropastoral cows have poor productivity and live on grass and occasional crop residue.
Rule of thumb, a local cow consumes 2.5 per cent of its body weight and consumes about 15 litres of water.
The average herd size of agropastoralists is between 20-35 animals.
So, for 200kg cow, a herder must cut and carry 110kg of  grass and source 200litres of water daily.
This is an impossible task.
So, a law abiding Nigerian trying to eke out a living from cattle business has two choices, stay and lose your means of livelihood or leave town.
The term ranching is not clearly defined in this country, so all intensive or enclosed livestock production systems are categorised as ranching.
However, a ranch is a very large area of rangeland that is enclosed where animals roam and openly graze.
It is in view of that, the Land Use Act recommends allocation of up to 5,000 ha for livestock farming.
So, if state governors genuinely believe in ranching, they should put their money where their mouth is and allocate the recommended hectares to ranchers.
The statement that states go into ranching because there is no land is incongruent.
According to FAO, 33 per cent of global land is under cultivation for animal feeds while 30 per cent of the entire earth surface is permanently under pasture to support global intensive livestock production.
Against all odds, open grazing has success a story.
Ethiopia has a landmass of 110 million hectares with 60 million cattle, three times that of Nigeria under open grazing.
Ethiopia is one of the fastest-growing economies in Africa with livestock production covering 40 per cent of agricultural output and contributing 13-16 per cent of the total GDP.
Without any doubt, cattle production is facing a myriad of challenges associated with husbandry, the misconduct of some herders, climate change and local politics.
In today’s world, technology is the weapon of first choice to overcome most challenges associated with livestock production.
Nigeria has successfully applied genetics to produce high-yielding day-old chicks, hybrid seeds to increase yields of maize and soybeans for massive production of quality commercial poultry feeds and veterinary sciences to deliver healthcare services to poultry.
Bankers eager to make a quick buck saw the huge internal market and the Nigerian spirit of entrepreneurship and massively funded commercial poultry.
Today, that industry is worth about N10 trillion (PAN) and is the biggest in Africa.
But most significantly, commercial and free-range rural poultry exists in all states thus giving commercial poultry the all-important Federal character.
The poultry revolution did not just happen, it was made to happen by deliberate government policies, public-private sector partnership and the Nigerian spirit of entrepreneurship.
The same technology can transform the cattle industry for the benefit of all if only Nigerians can make that conscious and deliberate political decision rather than unhelpful legislation driven by emotions.
Dr Junaidu Maina is a former Director, Federal Livestock Department

Biden lifts travel ban on Nigeria, Sudan, Tanzania, others
President Joe Biden on Wednesday lifted the travel restriction the Trump administration had placed on countries including Nigeria, Sudan, Eritrea, Tanzania, among others.
The order also ended blocked entry to most people from Iran, Syria, Libya, Yemen, Somalia and North Korea.
On Wednesday the president signed 15 executive orders including two agency actions.
Biden condemned the ban as an attack on racial and religious minorities.
The president directs the “State Department to resume visa processing for those countries and develop a plan to address people affected, such as those who were denied entry to the U.S”.
The move is part of an aggressive push to roll back some of the most controversial actions of his predecessor and chart a new course for the nation.
The former president, Donald Trump had placed restrictions on travel and immigration from some predominantly Muslim countries.
Trump’s central 2016 campaign promises were to crack down on immigration and limit the number of Muslims coming to the U.S.
The travel ban has been devastating especially to those who have families in the US and worsened health care crisis especially as a shortage of doctors intensified in rural America.

Lekki seaport to create 2,000 direct jobs — MD
The Managing Director of Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise Limited (LPLEL), promoters of the Lekki Deep Sea Port, Mr Du Ruogang, has said the port would generate about 2000 direct jobs and over 10,000 indirect jobs when it is completed in 2022.
Ruogang disclosed this recently while taking journalists on a tour to assess the level of progress on the construction work at the Lekki Port project site.
He also disclosed that construction work on the project has so far moved at a fast pace, reaching 51% completion, adding that some major milestones such as completion of Eastern breakwater had been achieved.
He stressed that all hands are already on deck to deliver the first of its kind Deep Sea Port in Nigeria as one of the shareholders, the Nigerian Ports Authority, had commenced work to initiate marine services at the site.
He also expressed confidence that the Lekki Deep Sea Port would change the narrative of Nigeria’s maritime sector and consequently impact Nigeria’s economic development.
According to him, Lekki Port is estimated to have an aggregate economic impact of $361 billion over 45 years, creating no less than 169,972 jobs and generating revenue for both state and federal government agencies through taxes, royalties and duties in the process.
The MD explained that the project has succeeded in providing employment opportunities for about 1,200 Nigerians with 50 of them from the host community.

Huawei CEO: We won’t give up the ideal of globalization
Huawei’s CEO Ren Zhengfei has pledged to stick to a globalization strategy despite external pressure.
He has called on the new US administration to come up with more open policies that are in the interests of US companies and the US economy as a whole.
These are the first public remarks the founder of Huawei has made since the change of the US administration.
Ren was speaking during a press briefing in Taiyuan, the capital city of China’s northern Shanxi province, after launching the Intelligent Mining Innovation Lab.
“Trade benefits both sides.
Allowing US companies to supply goods to Chinese customers is conducive to their own financial performance.
“If Huawei’s production capacity expands, US companies could sell more.
“It’s a win-win situation.
I believe the new administration will weigh these interests as they consider their policies,” said Ren.
Ren stated that Huawei creates value to the whole ecosystem and the wider economy.
He cited the example that Huawei has built 5G networks in many cities in Europe, Asia and the Middle East, and its networks in Europe top global network performance tests, benefiting all the users on those networks.
“The fact high-end users can use the iPhone 12 to its fullest effect on our 5G networks in Europe is a testament to the quality of our networks,” said Ren.
“As humanity keeps making progress, no company can develop a globalized industry alone.
It requires concerted efforts around the world,” Ren added.
The United States government has been campaigning against Huawei in the past two years alleging
Huawei’s equipment could be used to spy on Americans, without presenting any evidence.
Huawei has repeatedly denied the claims, and few other countries have given in to US pressure, with most focusing on ensuring all vendors meet technical standards to security.
Ren said he is now even more confident about Huawei’s survival than he was.
“We have found new and more ways to overcome our challenges.
Our sales revenue and profits in 2020 were higher than the previous years,” Ren told journalists.
Digital transformation for industries
Ren said new strategies include research and development and growing deeper roots in vertical industries around the world to enable the digital transformation with its Huawei’s core ICT capabilities.
Ren said the Intelligent Mining Innovation Lab would result in better services for mines with 5G. 
“By supporting the mining industry, we can grow our business and support more efficient and safer production in mines.
“We can also enable coal mine workers to ‘wear suits and ties’ at work,” Ren said.
“In the 5G era, connecting businesses is the main goal.
There are many industries that we are not too familiar with, like airports, ports, coal mining, iron and steel production, automotive manufacturing, and aircraft manufacturing.
That’s why we built joint labs to learn more about the needs of these industries.”
Huawei’s business results for the first nine months of the year 2020 showed that revenue totalled 671.3 billion yuan ($98.57 billion), up 9.9% from that of the same period in 2019.
“We’ll continue serving our customers well by creating more value for them.
“We want them to have lasting faith in us, and we hope that they won’t sway because of political pressure,” said Ren.

Farmers, herders in Ekiti to register with government or get expelled
Ekiti State government has given farmers and herders another two-week window to register with the state government or be ready to leave the state.
The two-week grace begins on Sunday, March 22.
In February, the state conducted a two-week registration of farmers and herders, but not all those involved seized the opportunity.
Commissioner for Agriculture and Food Security, Dr Olabode Adetoyi, said in a statement issued in Ado-Ekiti on Saturday that the exercise was expedient to ensure that all farmers and herders could be accounted for.
He added that the registration was also aimed at ensuring peace between the two groups and bringing incessant clashes between them to an end.
He noted that the exercise was in consonance with the National Livestock Transformation Programme of the Federal Government.
Dr Adetoyi observed that clashes between farmers and herders posed dangers to human and food security, hence the need to take proactive measures to curb the menace.
Special Adviser to Gov. Kayode Fayemi on security matters and chairman, herders-farmers peace committee, retired Brig.-Gen.
Ebenezer Ogundana, warned in the statement that whoever failed to register would be treated as a criminal.
Such persons, he said, would be compelled to leave the state.
Director-General, Office of Transformation and Service Delivery, Prof. Mobolaji Aluko, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that identity cards would be issued to registered farmers and herders free of charge, (NAN).

7 months after, concerns over Buhari’s INEC commissioner-nominees
On October 13, 2020, President Muhammadu Buhari nominated one of his aides, Lauretta Onochie and three others as commissioners in the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
While the nominations, especially that of Onochie, generated heated discussions, nothing has been heard on it again, making some commentators to think that those nominated may be replaced.
Apart from the chairman of the commission, Professor Mahmoud Yakubu, there are 12 national commissioners that run the administration of the electoral umpire.
Yakubu, whose first tenure ended on Monday, November 9, 2020, was re-appointed as the chairman of the commission for a record second term in office.
However, five national commissioners whose tenure expired and are not eligible for re-appointment were Mrs Amina Bala Zakari (Jigawa, North West) who had acted as INEC chairman before Yakubu took over Professor Antonia Taiye Okoosi-Simbine (Kogi, North-Central); Alhaji Baba Shettima Arfo (Borno, North-East); Dr Mohammed Mustafa Lecky (Edo, South-South) and Prince Adedeji Solomon Soyebi (Ogun, South-West).
There was also the voluntary retirement of Abubakar Ahmed Nahuche, an engineer, thus leaving the electoral impire with six vacant seats for national commissioners.
Apart from Yakubu as chairman of the commission, the remaining six national commissioners are Air Vice Marshal Ahmed Mu’azu (retd), Malam Mohammed Kudu Haruna, Professor Okechukwu Ibeanu, Mrs May Agbamuche-Mbu, Dr Adekunle Ogunmola; who were sworn in on December 5, 2016, and Festus Okoye, a lawyer, who was sworn in on July 21, 2018.
This may have prompted President Buhari’s nomination of his Special Assistant on Social Media, Lauretta Onochie, for confirmation by the Senate as a national commissioner representing Delta State.
Others nominated are Professor Mohammed Sani (Katsina), Professor Kunle Ajayi (Ekiti) and Seidu Ahmed (Jigawa).
Senate President Ahmad Lawan, on October 13,  2020, while reading the president’s letter of request at plenary in the Senate, said the nomination was pursuant to paragraph 14 of part 1F of the First Schedule of the 1999 Constitution.
Delay dangerous for 2023 elections — CSOs 
Members of civil society organisations who spoke with Daily Trust were unanimous that President Buhari should respect the provisions of Nigeria’s constitution and without delay, appoint the right people as national commissioners of the INEC.
Speaking on the development, the executive director, Resource Centre for Human Rights and Civic Education (CHRICED), Dr Ibrahim M. Zikirullahi, told Daily Trust on Sunday that the issue of vacancy at the level of INEC national commissioners is very disturbing.
According to him, if the president is having difficulty in finding the right candidates to fill the vacancies, he could advertise the positions and let qualified people apply.
“To allow a vacuum in an institution very critical to our democracy sends a worrisome signal.
On the nomination of his aide, which was roundly condemned, the president appears to imply that he does not know people beyond his narrow circle in government.
He should broaden his horizon and ensure that the most competent people are brought in to serve the country,” Zikirullahi said.
On her part, the director of programmes, Yiaga Africa, Cynthia Mbamalu, told Daily Trust that the INEC was yet to be fully constituted since some seats of some national commissioners are vacant.
“The nomination of one of the aides to the president as commissioner in the INEC shows a disregard for the rule of law on the part of the president.
In section 14(2) part 1, third schedule, the constitution clearly requires non-partisanship, integrity and independence as fundamental principles for the appointment of commissioners into the electoral body.
“The National Assembly has the power to decline to confirm a nominee who does not meet the required criteria to serve as national commissioner.
The lawmakers should have screened other nominees who passed the test of non-partisanship and integrity while waiting for a replacement for those who did not pass the test.
“This delay has a severe impact on the operations of the INEC, with just 21 months away from the 2023 elections.
Concluding on this appointment process is essential, considering the different state-level elections to be conducted before 2023 and the roles each national commissioner plays in the eco-system of election administration and operations,” Mbamalu said.
She added that the appointment of the remaining commissioners was crucial for a duly constituted INEC, which will ensure a successful conduct of the 2023 elections.
She said, “It is crucial that the president reconsiders his nomination and increases the number of women as national commissioners, and subsequently, resident electoral commissioners.’’
Commenting on the issue, the executive director, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), Auwal Musa Rafsanjani, said Nigerians had noted Onochie’s support for President Buhari and other members of the All Progressives Congress (APC).
She is, therefore, generally regarded as partisan, thereby falling short of one of the requirements of the Nigerian constitution for the appointment of commissioners into the INEC.
“As calls for transparency in Nigeria’s electioneering processes deepen, it is important for the president to spare the election umpire from biased appointments.
It is even more important for the president to listen to voices of the civil society and the general Nigerian citizenry to rescind the appointment of Onochie as INEC commissioner.
Failure to do this would have a negative effect on citizens’ perception of the commission and its composition,” Rafsanjani said.
No cause for alarm
— INEC
Speaking on the situation, the chief press secretary to the INEC chairman, Mr Rotimi Oyekanmi, said “The chairman and the six national commissioners in place have ensured that the commission does not suffer any harm in spite of not having the full complement of commissioners.
It is not an easy undertaking, but it is not beyond the team.
“Indeed, the commission has, over the years, developed a unique feature of adjusting itself in this kind of situation.
This is not the first time the commission is facing this type of scenario, but it has always demonstrated an extraordinary capacity to survive under pressure,” Oyekanmi said.
He, however, said the commission would be glad to have the remaining six commissioners in place as soon as possible.
Presidency mum
When contacted, the Presidency kept mum on the decision of the Senate not to confirm the nominees.
Senator Babajide Omoworare, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), neither picked his calls not replied a text message sent to him by our correspondent.
A similar message sent to the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, after phone calls, was not replied at the time of going to press.

Secondus accused of N10bn fraud in fresh crisis rocking PDP
A fresh crisis has hit the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the Prince Uche Secondus-led National Working Committee (NWC) of the party has been accused of mismanagement of N10bn generated from the sale of forms for four years.
The country’s anti-corruption agencies, EFCC and ICPC have been petitioned by one of the chieftains of the party over the matter.
The petitioner, Prince Kassim Afegbua, alleged that the leadership has mismanaged close to N10bn which accrued from the sale of nomination forms for the presidential, gubernatorial, house of assembly and senatorial elections from 2017 to date.
Responding to the petitioner, the National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, described the claim as “spurious” and “irresponsible”.
“The PDP did not raise Afegbua’s fictitious sum of N10 billion as alleged by him.
For the avoidance of doubt, the PDP generated the sum of N4.6 billion and raised a budget for its expenditure, in line with all known financial regulations of our party.
“This budget passed through the organs of our party and received the approvals from the NWC, the governors’ forum, the Board of Trustees as well as other organs of the party.
“As a law-abiding political party that respects the doctrine of rule of law and transparency, the budget was presented to the National Executive Committee (NEC) where it also received a final approval,” the party stated.
The petitioner, in a statement, said, “Much of the financial transactions of the PDP under Prince Uche Secondus have been shrouded in mystery.”
He said in the event the anti-graft agency delayed in carrying out its investigation, he would have no option but to seek legal redress in the law court.

Understanding smallholder farmers
Most of the inhabitants of our rural areas are subsistence farmers.
They are responsible for very high proportions of food and cash crop production.
Subsistence farmers are smallhold­ers who consume the majority of their farm output and who are held back from participating more actively in com­mercially oriented agriculture by a variety of constraints.
These factors constrain the promotion of commercialisation of agricultural activities of rural producers, including notably low investment in infrastructure, limited input/output market linkages and insufficient technical and institutional support and materials/equipment.
Subsistence farming has been defined as ‘‘farming and associated activities which together form a livelihood strategy where the main output is consumed directly, where there are few, if any, purchased inputs and where only a minor proportion of output is marketed.”
Smallholder agriculture is used more generally to describe rural producers, predominantly in developing countries, who farm using mainly family labour and for who the farm provides the principal source of income.
This systems has been characterised as ‘‘complex, diverse and risk-prone.”
Farms are generally small, often held under traditional or informal tenure, and are in marginal or risk-prone environments.
Yields are low and farmers lack the capacity to increase yields.
There is an urgent need to strengthen the smallholder farmer’s innovation systems to address food insecurity, promote resilient livelihoods to ensure adequate food availability and access; improving utilisation with a focus on enhancing stability through vulnerability and risk reduction.
Increasing agricultural productivity, climate resilience and sustainability, particularly for smallholder farmers by promoting climate smart agricultural practices, restoration of degraded soils and agricultural biodiversity is among the important options.
The emphasis now is on agricultural productivity, production enhancement and commercialising farming as an enterprise.
This will involve developing the capacity of these smallholder farmers to sustainably increase yields and be profitable.
Smallholders have become increasingly vulnerable to a spectrum of emerging climatic, health, price, and finan­cial risks and challenges as well.
These emerging challenges lead many smallholder farmers to pursue livelihood strate­gies that involve lower-risk and lower-yielding agricultural activities.
Such responses can help smallholders cope with adverse events, but they also cause poverty to persist, trap­ping smallholders in a cycle of little or no profits, with limited opportunities to undertake more productive and innovative activities.
The potential for increasing adaptation to ensure food security, reducing poverty and driving economic growth, depends to a great extent on the capacities of resource poor farmers.
These capacities currently are very low and are significant constraints to enhancing the ability of producers to successfully commercialise their production.
As developing countries’ populations grow larger, richer, and more urban, the intensification of agricultural produc­tion will occur in rapidly changing agri-food value chains.
Increasingly globalised and liber­alised agri-food markets are dominated by supermarkets, distributors, processors, and agro-exporters that are intro­ducing and expanding food safety and quality standards that many smallholders are unable to meet.
These developments are further shifting the competitive advantage away from smallholder farmers toward large-scale producers.
Subsistence farming has to be replaced with profitable farming that improves livelihoods, ensures food security and sustainably utilises the environment.
Therefore, it becomes imperative to initiate actions and interventions that seek to address these problems.
This will require an integrated approach of methodologies.
Many smallholders are excluded from productivity-enhancing financial services and are unable to secure much-needed fixed and working capital, which ranges from land and buildings to machinery, high-yielding seeds, and fertilizer.
One of the major financing challenges facing smallholders is their limited access to financial options and services for keeping their savings in formal accounts.
The absence of financial savings services contributes to the low savings rate among smallholders and their lack of buffers against adversity and shocks.
Linking smallholders to agricultural value chains is an impor­tant component of building smallholder resistance to shocks and improving their productivity and livelihoods.
However, many smallholders in transforming and trans­formed economies are unable to participate in value chains because they cannot meet increasingly specific and strict quality standards, high volume requirements and logis­tics specifications.
Similarly, digital technologies can offer smallholder farmers a wealth of opportunities to acquire real-time market informa­tion on, for example, prices, demand, quality standards, and weather.
With this information, farmers can make better-informed production and marketing decisions and participate more actively in value chains.
Access to such technologies needs to be accompanied by efforts from the public and private sectors to improve both the information content of digital technologies and the ability of potential users to employ these technologies.
There are significant opportunities to move smallholder farmers from subsistence to commercial agriculture in Nigeria.
However, there must be a multi-sectoral approach aimed at upgrading and achieving an efficient, economic and sustainable agricultural production in Nigeria which will be capable of meeting not only our food security need but regional and international markets, while at the same time ensuring a fair and equitable distribution of wealth and environmental sustainability.
With the current global turn of events, it is imperative to not only drive aggressive economic diversification but also ensure the food security and sustainability of livelihoods especially for the common man.

Farmers’ many battles in 2020
For many farmers and other stakeholders in the agro sector, the year 2020 will remain one of the worst years in the history of Nigeria because it introduced new dynamics that millions of smallholder farmers have to contend with.
The agricultural sector was confronted with many challenges ranging from the climate change-related issues, conflicts and the complications exacerbated by the global COVID-19 pandemic, which brought pains and heartbreak to farmers and agribusiness players.
First, the COVID-19 lockdown and restrictions happened at the time dry season farmers were about to harvest their crops and wet season farmers were about to commence cultivation.
Many farmers could not access their farms while for others getting labourers to harvest their farms since mechanization is a huge challenge and harvest is manual, is the problem.
Movement restrictions introduced to curb the spread of the coronavirus locked-down markets had disrupted the rural economy.
Many farmers could not sell their produce to enable them to buy seeds and fertilizer, pay labourers/tractor services.
Even when the lockdown was lifted for the agricultural sector, the price of fertilizer became so high that many smallholder farmers could not afford it.
In some places, the price went as high as N13,000 for a 50kg bag of Indorama and Notore Urea.
NPK 15-15-15 went up to N25,000 while the federal government’s NPK 20-10-10 under the Presidential Fertilizer Initiative, which was meant to be sold to farmers at N5000 was not available in most places and in areas where they were, the price went up to N7,000 and higher in some places according to reports.
For farmers in Zamfara, Katsina, southern Kaduna, some parts of Kebbi and Sokoto states, bandits’ activities not only denied them access to their farms but left many killed in their farms.
Many farming communities were razed down.
Many people were kidnapped for ransom.
Many paid large sums of money or surrendered large portions of their harvest to the bandits.
Many villages in those states have now become desolate.
The agric sector also witnessed one of the worst disasters when floods wiped out over 450,000 hectares of rice and maize fields estimated at over N3.5 billion across Kebbi, Sokoto and Kano states.
Many of the affected farmers are yet to be compensated as their livelihood was destroyed.
The flood was the worst since the 2012 disaster that wreaked havoc across most of Nigeria’s coastal cities and flood-prone areas killing people and washing away farmlands.
Meanwhile, as the flood was putting pains in the hearts of farmers up North, farmers down South were confronted with drought.
For two months, farmers watched helplessly as their investment in crops withered away.
With the absence of irrigation facilities, there was nothing the farmers could do to mitigate the impact of the climate change-related disaster.
Another subsector that was badly hit this year was poultry and feeds.
The scarcity of maize from the beginning caused prices to increase so much that thousands of smallholder farmers folded up.
It also forced the Poultry Association of Nigeria to send a “Save our Soul” appeal to the federal government for urgent attention.
The federal government responded to the appeal and released 5,000 metric tons of maize from the nation’s strategic reserve to the farmers in addition to granting some of the big players licenses to import about 222 metric tons of maize to augment the shortfall for the feed industry.
However, this was just a short-term solution as barely three months later, the scarcity of soybean struck, making the farmers express fear that by January 2021, the industry would shut down completely.
The scarcity resulted in a serious feed crisis in the industry as prices reached a record high in its history rising from N2,600 in February to about N5,500 now.
The poultry industry lost an estimated N7 million jobs with figures projected to reach 10 million by January 2021 whereas the loss in investments was estimated conservatively at about N1.5 trillion.
While the poultry farmers are still struggling to deal with the challenges that marred the subsector, the crop farmers despite the daunting challenges that confronted the sector throughout the 2020 farming year, had buyers coming right up to their farms even before harvest to make bulk purchase arrangements.
This is also the first time that the prices of grains are refusing to come down at harvest time, sparking fear of looming hunger and the call for the borders to be reopened, which will allow an influx of smuggled products through the country’s porous borders.

3,000 youths to benefit from NALDA’s farm estate in Ebonyi
The National Agricultural Land Development Authority (NALDA) has said that the agency would engage at least 3,000 youths in Ebonyi State in its proposed integrated farm estate in the State.
The integrated farm estate will be completed and commissioned by October this year.
The Executive Secretary of the agency, Prince Paul Ikonne, who announced this Tuesday, said the proposed integrated farm estate would be established in 104 hectares of land donated by the state government.
Prince Ikonne, who was also in Ebonyi State on Monday for a courtesy visit to the governor, Engr David Umahi, said that the integrated farm estate would be completed by October 2021.
“We have seen that the Governor has keyed into Mr President’s agenda of achieving food security in the country.
“We are establishing an integrated farm estate in Ebonyi like we are doing in other States.
“The scheme will engage young Nigerians and make agriculture more attractive to them.
“This is the mandate of Mr President, that we should reactivate abandoned farm estates and develop new ones for food security.
The Governor of Ebonyi State is eager and in a hurry for us to achieve food security.
“He is in total support of achieving Mr President’s vision and resolving herdsmen/farmers crisis.
So, Ebonyi State is committed to working with NALDA to engage the teeming youths into full agricultural productivity.”
The governor, however, requested that NALDA should consider the production of fingerlings and poultry in its proposed integrated farm estate, adding that 90 per cent of the State’s poultry needs are imported from Abia and Cross River States.

4 arrested for abducting 13-year-old girl in Ogun
The police in Ogun State have arrested four suspects for abducting a 13-year-old girl at Onipanu in Ado Odo/Ota Local Government Area of the state.
The suspects are John Nelson (21), Adeleke Ayotunde (29), Adekunle Basit (20) and Abey Fagbemi (20).
They were arrested following a complaint lodged at the Onipanu Divisional Headquarters by one Adejuwon Odunowo; the father of the victim.
The complainant told the police that his daughter, Susan Odunowo, was sent on an errand by her mother at about 6.pm on May 6, and that she did not return home.
He said he later got a call from someone who demanded N500,000 ransom to set the victim free.
The spokesman of the police, Abimbola Oyeyemi, told newsmen on Tuesday in Abeokuta that following the report, the DPO of Onipanu, CSP Bamidele Job, detailed his detectives to unravel those behind the act.
According to him, on May 8, the detectives traced one of the suspects to Cele area of Ota where he was arrested.
Oyeyemi further said the arrest of the first suspect led to the apprehension of two other members of the gang at a factory in Ota.
He explained the operatives discovered that the victim was being kept in a room owned by Adekunle Basit and that, “Detectives swiftly moved in there and rescued the victim unhurt.
“The leader of the gang, Abbey Fagbemi, who took to flight immediately he heard of the arrest of his fellow gang members, was later arrested at about 7.am of Monday May 10, 2021.”
He quoted the Commissioner of Police (CP), Edward Awolowo Ajogun, to have ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the anti-kidnapping section of the state criminal investigation and intelligence department for discreet investigation and prosecution.

BDCs tasked on corporate governance
Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON) has charged operators to ensure sound corporate governance practices and improved customer services in their operations.
The ABCON President, Dr. Aminu Gwadabe, gave this charge in Lagos at the opening session of the 2021 Annual ABCON Nationwide Training on BDC Operations.
Gwadabe stated that the training was organised in partnership with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) towards improving professionalism and higher compliance level in the BDC subsector.
It is also to enhance the service delivery to forex end users, noting that BDCs occupy a very important position and play critical roles in the nation’s foreign exchange market.
Gwadabe also said BDC’s
operations are key in achieving stable exchange rate and easy access to foreign exchange for members of the public in a conducive environment.
“Thus the need for BDC directors and staff to be continuously exposed to quality capacity building programmes carefully designed to enhance their ability to professionally discharge their duties to forex end users and to the regulators,” he said.
Gwadabe said these roles informed the decision of ABCON to partner with the CBN, NFIU and other security agencies to organise the annual nationwide training on BDC operations.
He also said the one week training ending on June 30 holds in four locations across the country.

NDLEA seizes N10bn heroin, khat at Lagos, Kano airports
Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos and Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA), Kano have seized consignments of heroin and khat with a street value of over N10 billion.
The spokesman of the agency, Femi Babafemi, said on Sunday in Abuja that at the MMIA, Lagos, during cargo examination at SAHCO Import Shed, a freight agent had presented a cargo from South Africa with an Ethiopian Airline ET 3901 Airway Bill No. 071-40689003 for examination before NDLEA operatives at the beat.
He said the officers conducted a search of the cargo during which a suspicious brownish substance was discovered concealed inside a red ‘Ghana-must-go’ bag.
“During preliminary interview of the suspect, it was gathered that another freight agent sub-contracted the clearing job to him.
Six suspects have so far been arrested in follow-up operations, while the substance had tested positive to heroin with a total weight of 24.05kg.
“Another consignment in the consolidated cargo has also proved to be methamphetamine with a weight of 1.25kg, bringing the total weight of illicit drugs seized in the cargo to 25.3kg.
Though the cargo arrived the airport in the evening of 16th April, and searched the following day, follow-up operations leading to a number of arrests lasted till weekend,” Babafemi said.
He also quoted the Commander, MMIA Command of the agency, Ahmadu Garba, as saying that “The heroin and methamphetamine consignments were tagged in different names to deceive our officers but we uncovered them and neutralised their plot.”
In a similar development, the MAKIA Command of the agency in Kano seized a consignment meant for Manchester, United Kingdom at its Cargo shed.
“A sample of the substance in the consignment was sent for laboratory analysis and came out positive to khat, weighing 36kg.
“This thus bringing the total weight of illicit drugs seized at the two international airports to 61.3kg,” he added.

Luka Istifanus: FCT won’t hire athletes to win National Sports Festival medals
The acting Director of Sports in the FCT, Luka Istifanus has frowned at the reckless poaching of athletes by the big money spenders as he vowed that the FCT won’t go about paying athletes to win National Sports Festival medals.
In this interview with Trust Sports, the acting Director spoke on the performance of Team FCT at Edo 2020 and sports development in the Federal Capital Territory.
How has it been since you assumed office as the acting Director of Sports in the FCT?
So far, so good.
I took over as the acting Director of Sports in the FCT on the 8th day of October 2020 and since then my major concern has been how to take sports in the territory beyond where I met it.
It has not been easy because FCT is more or less a civil service settlement.
You cannot compare it with states like Lagos, Kano, Rivers, Edo, Kaduna and others.
However, we are doing everything to improve on the achievements we recorded in the past.
Interestingly, the Federal Capital Territory Administration is solidly behind us.
FCT placed 16th on the medals table at the just concluded 2020 National Sports Festival.
How satisfied are you with the performance of your athletes?
I must start by saying that I was the happiest person when the administration of the FCT approved that we should participate in the 2020 National Sports festival.
Although there is still room for improvement, I will say that I am satisfied with what we were able to achieve.
Looking back, we have always been 17th, 18th or 19th apart from when we hosted the sports festival in 2004 and 2018.
You know when you are the host, you have so many advantages.
You can patronise as many events as possible.
You can register as many athletes as you want.
However, when you are going out, you have to cut down the number of events and athletes to minimise cost.
So I am happy that this time around, we didn’t host but ended up in the 16th position despite the enormous challenges we faced.
Two states, the host Edo and Delta battled for supremacy and that impacted negatively on officiating.
We could have performed even better but questionable officiating denied us so many medals.
We were not the only victims of the supremacy tussle between Edo and Delta.
In all, we are grateful because we performed better than 21 states.
With the support of the government, we would perform better at Delta 2022.
The National Sports Festival is now open.
How did your athletes cope with their more experienced opponents?
It was not an easy task because some states went as far as the USA, France and Germany to hire athletes.
Like in tennis, the player who won the singles event came from France and was paid the sum of N5 million by Delta State.
Some states brought as much as 30 professionals outside the country which was a whole lot of money.
Remember in addition to government money, they have oil companies that are their sponsors.
But here in FCT, we depended solely on government funding.
A state gave as much as N15m to one of its officials to ‘monitor’ proceedings for it in combat sports.
That is the money that some states struggled to get to attend the festival.
For us, even before we left for Benin City, our minister charged us to be responsible to our behaviours, to be worthy ambassadors.
He advised that we shouldn’t try to win by all means.
That was his farewell message to us and we abided by it.
We didn’t go outside FCT to look for athletes.
It has been the policy of the FCT to raise athletes from the grassroots and expose them for national and international competitions.
And that was exactly what we did.
We paraded the youngest athletes at the festival but they did their best against the professionals.
Do you support calls in some quarters for the National Sports Festival to be returned to when it was strictly for amateurs?
Throwing it open to some extent has advantages but disadvantages are more.
The biggest disadvantage is that it is making coaches to be lazy.
Coaches are paid salaries but when it is time for the sports festival, they are given money to go round and poach athletes from other states.
I remember during the 2018 edition, some athletes were forced to refund as much as N1m for failing to deliver medals to states that contracted them.
This is definitely not helping in the development of talents.
For instance, it took the France based tennis who represented Delta State less than 10 minutes to eliminate my player in the men’s singles event.
That was how so many other players were denied the opportunity to exhibit their talents.
The sports festival is now for the highest bidder but FCT won’t buy medals.
We don’t have money to hire athletes to win medals.
We shall continue to raise our own local athletes.
What suggestions would you proffer to discourage the poaching of athletes which you said is usually carried out by the big money spending states?
Honestly, we must go back to the grassroots.
FCT has 62 wards.
Each area council has 10 words except AMAC that has 12.
Sports development must start from the ward level.
In the past, FCT organised so many competitions from the ward level but mostly in team sports like football, handball, volleyball and athletics.
These are events that are not capital intensive.
We usually start from the wards to the area council headquarters and to the city centre.
This is the platform that has continued to generate athletes for the FCT.
So I am calling on other states to emulate the FCT in developing their own athletes.
Talking of developing athletes, would you say there are enough and standard sporting facilities in the FCT?
We have six sports centres that are under construction in each of the six area councils.
Already, we have made a strong appeal and the Hon.
Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu has already visited some of the facilities.
She has been to Kuje and AMAC and is planning to go to Bwari and others to see the level of development.
With the backing of the Honourable Minister, Alhaji Mohammed Musa Bello, she is doing everything to ensure these facilities are completed.
We have also made requests for sporting equipment in sports like karate, judo, boxing, wrestling and a host of others.
We are expecting favourable responses.
What are the plans for the next edition of the sports festival?
We have started training already because the next edition is less than one and half year away.
So we have started preparations and we have since made requests and recommendations to enable us to prepare adequately for Delta 2022.

Need to imbibe lessons of Ramadan
There is a need to pay more attention to the plight of the poor.
The Muslims’ holy month of self- purification and self- denial otherwise known as Ramadan has just ended.
While it lasted, the season of fasting and prayer offered all Muslims the opportunity to reflect on their relationship with Allah.
It also enabled those with means to share food with the poor, the needy and the less privileged.
For all Muslims, it was an opportunity to rededicate themselves to the teachings of the faith and the cause of mankind as a whole.
Altogether, it was a period of deep reflection on the inter-relationship between man and his neighbour, on the one hand, as well as man and his God, on the other.
Even though the month-long fasting has come and gone, its lessons must endure.
As one of the five pillars of Islam, Ramadan has a highly spiritual significance.
To devotees, it was a period of self-emptying without which no spiritual being can have a truly rewarding relationship with his or her maker.
That explains why the exercise was marked in Nigeria (as elsewhere in the world) by private and group prayers, and abstinence from all forms of worldly comforts and pleasures.
The aim was to enhance spiritual growth and foster charity and brotherly love.
As the Muslims therefore mark the end of this annual spiritual exercise, it is hoped that the outcome will be of immense benefit to the nation.
Clearly, there has never been a greater need for sharing with the less privileged and the needy than exists today when millions of Nigerians can hardly make ends meet due to the prevailing economic situation in the country.
By paying attention to the plight of the poor, as was amply demonstrated in the course of Ramadan, we invariably place the welfare of our neighbour as important as ours.
By allowing others to partake of our wealth or material possessions, we honour the One who gave us the wealth in the first place.
This happens to be at the heart of all religions but a virtue hardly imbibed by many in Nigeria today.
That must change.
Since the Ramadan fast, like the other four pillars of Islam, was aimed at promoting both the spiritual and material wellbeing of man, it stands to reason that man is invariably better off doing the will of God than merely pleasing himself.
When he is able to rein in the impulse for self- gratification and greedy accumulation of wealth, man is more liable to make his society a better place to live in, not only for himself but also for his neighbour.
That for us was one of the most enduring lessons of Ramadan which we hope many would have imbibed.
It is noteworthy that fasting as a spiritual exercise is advocated by all religions ostensibly with the notion that the man who can make sacrifices in the bid to tame his desires would be a better person both for himself and the larger society.
As one expert puts it, besides abstention from food and drink, fasting helps the faithful “from looking at the provocative, from hearing the mischievous, and from uttering the obscene….to avoid slander and from thinking about inflicting injury to others”.
The month of Rahmah (blessing), Barakah (mercy), and Magfirah (forgiving) is upon us.
The blessed month is a precious gift from Allah SWT to Muslims.
But do we know exactly why this month is so special to Muslims?
What exactly is the purpose of this month, and all the blessings associated with it?
What are the lessons we are supposed to take away in observing the sanctity of this month?
Of course, this blessed month exists to train us, to guide us, and to remind us of how we should approach the remaining 11 months of the year.
Ramadan imparts upon us numerous lessons: How to develop our manners and moral fortitude, how to treat our fellow human beings with respect, how to strengthen our brotherhood, how to maintain unity among the Muslim community, and how to be welcoming to all the non-Muslims who share this land with us.
The month also teaches us to be more pious, disciplined, and how to maintain self-control, while shielding our souls from greed and immorality.
But, most importantly, the month teaches us how we can improve our connection with the Almighty.
The month of Ramadan also instills a sense of empathy within us.
It allows us to understand the situation of the less fortunate, to feel and experience the pain of hunger and the pangs of thirst that our poverty-stricken brothers and sisters — who are often forced to go without food and drink — feel every waking day.
Ramadan is a month of mercy and bonding — Muslims all over the world help one another, and those outside their community, spreading happiness all around.
This month is a shining example of the unity that can be achieved among all classes of people in any society, as the rich and the poor, the employer as well as the employee; the parents as well as the child, the ruler as well as the subjects, all keep fast.
Regardless of the colour of their skin or their social stature, fasting unites us all.
It reminds us how we should conduct ourselves and our behaviour towards those around us, while also teaching us the importance of respect.
Not only do we learn to abstain from food and drink, but we also abstain from making any statements and actions that may cause harm to people or violate their rights.
It gives us an opportunity to rectify ourselves through performing numerous good deeds such as providing food or aid to the needy, improving social interaction, giving charity, sadaqah and zakat, and so on.
And all of these deeds will be remembered on Judgment Day by the Almighty.
But what happens to all these lessons after Ramadan?
Unfortunately, we seldom retain any of the lessons we learn on this holiest of months beyond Eid-Eil-Fitr itself.
But the purpose of Ramadan runs deeper than mere celebration.
The lessons we receive are the lodestar for the rest of the 11 months in any given year.
The training we receive is meant to improve us as human beings for the rest of our lives, as that is the true purpose of Ramadan.
After the month is over, and we have all observed our final fast, and the Eid celebrations are dealt with, we will all return to our normal lives.
But, it is important that we keep the spirit of Ramadan alive for the rest of the year, and indeed the rest of our lives.
Because it is only through unity, modesty, and temperance that we can make the world a better place for all of us.
All said, the nation’s leaders, political and otherwise, have much to take from the lessons of Ramadan.
If they can curtail their materialistic tendencies and pay more attention to the yearnings of the people, the country will certainly become a much happier place for everyone.
We therefore urge our leaders to imbibe the lessons of Ramadan.
To our numerous Muslim readers we say, Eid Mubarak.
May Allah reward your sacrifice.
Ibrahim Adémólá Òrúnbon writes from Abeokuta, Ogun State.

Column No.6: Who’s checking checkpoints in Abuja?
It goes without saying that Abuja, being the capital city of our dear nation Nigeria, is important.
So I will be the last person to complain about security being too much.
In fact, I would even say it needs to be more.
Checkpoints, those incredibly useful security constructs, have helped – and continue to help – to either thwart criminals, or even proactively tackle crime.
The police, saddled with most of internal security, at least in the ideal situation, man most of the checkpoints in Abuja metropolis, as well as surrounding areas.
Sure, the army picks up the slack in some places, but the ‘boys in blue’ are supposed to be the main custodians.
They are, and
boy do they mess things up in a lot of cases.
For starters, take for instance one of the checkpoints in Wuse II, particularly the one leading from Zone 4 to Wuse II, just before the bridge.
The conduct of the officers there, from my experience, is abysmal.
Anyone who plies that road after 9pm – their ‘resumption time’ – will echo what I’m saying.
I won’t go into details, but what I can say is that it sometimes is extremely unprofessional.
Still in Wuse II, just beside AP plaza, the story is the same.
I would like to suggest to the higher-ups to monitor all the checkpoints in Wuse II to see firsthand what I mean.
But the checkpoint horror stories don’t end there.
Probably the worst of them all is the checkpoint after the traffic lights at the popular Banex Junction, which is manned by cops from the Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU), no less.
Barking at commuters and intimidating innocent citizens every night, they cut a picture of a poorly-trained and badly-behaved set of individuals who seem to miss the point that they’re supposed to protect and serve citizens.
The same CTU is also responsible for the personnel manning a checkpoint near the Nigerian Army Farms and Ranch Ltd. (NAFARLS), where all kinds of things unfold.
Anyone plying that road can see for themselves.
I’ll also request the ‘higher-ups’ to do the same, with a view to fixing things.
Forget Abuja for a minute, even.
Look around Nigeria, and the many checkpoints – roadblocks, really – on highways across the country by numerous security agencies, are generally seen as reasons for loss of time, or even increased prices of consumer goods and services.
As is the case with our security organisations, they always push back swiftly, with well-oiled PR machines denying allegations or issuing veiled threats.
Don’t forget the fact that while many checkpoints might be legal, many are not.
That is made clear by the way and manner in which the personnel mounting it carry out their activities.
Now, this isn’t a police-bashing piece.
It’s also not meant to disparage VIOs and FRSC personnel.
It’s a general critique of checkpoints and how we do them in this part of the world.
Which means we will have to look at others’, like the Federal Road Safety Corps’ (FRSC) and that of VIOs’.
Again, I will not say too much, just to suggest closer monitoring of the checkpoints – snap checkpoints, really – for some really shocking revelations.
This is because this isn’t a piece meant to disparage anyone or any organisation.
But can someone do something about the ridiculous lack of quality of our checkpoints, generally?
Checkpoints aren’t recent, as far as innovations go.
There are set standards for the various types that exist, and all we need to do is to adhere to them.
They are quite helpful in fighting crime, and so we cannot wish them away.
But we owe it to ourselves to get them right.
They, , like most things, have the capacity for great good, but if handled badly, can be the source of a lot of very bad things.
Maybe focusing on the ones in Abuja will help us, as best practices spread nationwide.
I have no interest in highlighting the bad, but the personnel at checkpoints in Abuja make that inevitable.
But all hope is not lost: I am hoping that somehow, someone, somewhere – who can do something about our checkpoints – will do something about them.
That someone, somewhere, somehow, is checking our checkpoints, and the people that man them.
It might make all the difference in our safety – and public perception about our security personnel, which is something we’ve been sorely lacking for a long time now.
Isn’t it time
we did things differently?

Glut hits Katsina tomato farmers
Farmers and dealers of tomatoes in Katsina State have, in the last two weeks, experienced acute market glut; some of them resorted to sun-drying the produce.
According to the farmers, they least expected such development, considering the stiff economic condition in the country, high cost and demand of food items, as well as longtime border closure that halted free importation of food items, including tomato paste.
Shehu Bashiru Danja, a tomato farmer, said they were expecting huge revenue in this period, but their hope was dashed with the recent development.
“Many of us targeted Christmas and New Year periods, with the hope to make good sales of the produce, but to our surprise, we ended up with market glut.
We are really affected because of the high cost of production that involves fertiliser, seeds, herbicides/pesticides and labour,’’ he said.
Bashiru added that since the closure of land borders and the outbreak of COVID-19, the market price of tomato was not as low as N1,000 per big basket until recently.
“A big basket of tomatoes was sold between N3,000 and  N10,000 last year, a reason many irrigation farmers  this season concentrated on tomato production, with the hope that it would yield huge profits than other crops  like wheat, Irish potato  or cabbage,’’ he added.
Hamza Dalhatu, a tomato merchant and farmer said the market glut was borne out of protest against the indiscriminate taxes and levies on the produce in southern markets.
“Since last year, there has been an increase in taxes and levies on our goods and trucks in the southern part of the country.
The lingering security issue is also a threat to our merchants; hence they suspended business till things are sort out.
We cannot continue like that.
All the cost burdens end up on farmers without considering the cost of production,’’ Dalhatu said.
A check at Danja and Funtua markets revealed that a small basket of tomatoes costs N400 while a big basket was not more than N1,200
as at last week Friday.
Another tomato dealer, Sani Suleiman Hunkuyi, expressed hope that things would soon normalise as dealers from Lagos and Ibadan have visited some of their members in Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara to fashion out new terms for the business.
“The market glut of the produce is temporary and farmers will soon continue to reap the maximum benefits of their sweat,’’
Suleiman said.
Also, Umar Isah, an agric entrepreneur based in Katsina said market glut was not a new thing to tomato and onion producers, and it would continue unless modern storage and processing facilities are provided, not only by the government but agricultural companies and entrepreneurs.
“The only way out is the establishment of local storage and processing facilities in producing zones across the country.
Agric companies and entrepreneurs should take this challenge as soon as possible to solve this long time problem,’’ he said.

Supreme price: The untold story of policemen killed during #EndSARS protest
Sergeant Adegoke Ajibola and Corporal Rotimi Oladele ran as fast as their legs could carry them, sought a hiding place, pleaded for their lives as the mob closed in on them.
Their pleas fell on deaf ears.
They were dragged, beaten, hit with sticks, knives and any available objects in sight.
While still begging for their lives to be spared, they were set ablaze on a heap of tyres.
The more the fire raged, their voices were lost in the flames, never to be heard again.
The two men burnt to death on Iwo Road in the ancient town of Ibadan, the third largest city in Nigeria, were not criminals.
No, their only crime was that they were crime fighters.
A viral video posted by one of the hoodlums showed the despicable scene as the policemen were set ablaze on a heap of used tyres and their bodies shared.
The two were among the not less than 22 policemen, seven soldiers and 59 civilians killed in October 2020 during the #EndsARS protest, according to the toll announced by President Muhammadu Buhari during an emergency meeting with former Nigerian leaders.
The #EndSARS was a decentralised social movement and a series of mass protests against police brutality in Nigeria.
The slogan calls for the disbanding of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), a notorious unit of the Nigerian police with a long record of abuses.
The #EndSARS protest, which lasted two weeks, was peaceful until it was hijacked by hoodlums, who looted public and private-owned warehouses, burnt police stations and destroyed property.
Ajibola and Oladele were not members of the now disbanded SARS, according to official record and findings by our correspondents.
In fact, they were not the regular policemen  seen on the road as findings revealed that they were attached to the ‘B’ Operations Department of the Oyo State police command.
Their area of engagement was usually being on special duty as requested by different companies and organisations, and as approved by the command.
They were on their way to such engagement at a fish depot at the Wema Bank area of Gbagi in Ibadan when they met their untimely death.
Coincidentally, the 42-year-old Ajibola and his colleague, Oladele, had three children each.
Oladele’s wife, Feranmi, had just put to bed their third child, 16 days before the unfortunate incident.
Feranmi, who is an orphan, just as her late husband, said the news of his death shattered her world.
Tears welled up her eyes as she recounted the horrifying experience of six months ago.
Sensing danger as the #EndSARS protest had turned violent in some areas, Feranmi had pleaded with Oladele to stay at home.
The plea was ignored by her husband, who had said he couldn’t abdicate his responsibilities as a law enforcement agent.
Undeterred, Feranmi called Oladele’s elder sister to intervene, but the late police officer refused all treaties to make him stay at home.
After much persuasion, he promised that he would stay in the office.
“His sister also asked me to leave him since he said he was not going to the field but the office.
Four hours after he left the house, I felt that something bad had happened to me.
I could not eat.
I wasn’t okay because I was expecting him to call me, but there was nothing of such.
‘I called him but his phone was not going through.
I then went to meet one of our neighbours to inform her about it, but she said maybe my husband’s phone was off because he could not have the time to charge it.
Shortly after that, I was outside my room
and I heard people saying two policemen were killed in town.
“Not too long, I saw people moving their properties out of the barracks without telling me anything.
They were moving with the fear of possible attack on barracks.
In fact, they were watching me because many of them knew my husband had been killed.
“When it was around 8pm when people had left the barracks, I was still waiting for my husband to return home.
I just decided to visit the Eleyele headquarters when my sisters came into our house.
She asked me to follow her to her house.
“I was hearing people saying my husband had an accident.
That was the last moment I remember.
The following day, the oldest man in my family came to meet me and explained that my husband had died.
For more than five days, I didn’t know anything again,” she said.
Her words were stopped intermittently as she made unsuccessful attempts to control her tears
“They told us that we just had to accept our fate and move on.
He has three children.
My last child was 16 days when the incident happened.
He was attacked in Iwo Road.
“He was among the two victims who were roasted in Abayomi.
I heard those hoodlums ate the flesh of my husband,” she added, with fear and shock written all over her.
Tokede
Bolanle-Ajibola, the wife of Sergeant Ajibola, described the gruesome murder of her husband as disheartening and disgusting.
Reluctantly recalling the incident of October 22, Tokede wondered how the standard of humanity had depreciated in the society, warranting human beings to kill and eat the flesh of another.
“I was at work on October 22 when one of his colleagues called me to inform me that my husband had been killed.
He was attached to the police headquarters in Eleyele.
“According to the news I heard, he was roasted after being lynched by hoodlums.
I felt sad when I heard about it.
I didn’t get myself, but I had accepted my fate.
I heard that some hoodlums took part of his flesh away while some were eating it.
So disheartening and disgusting,’’ she lamented.
Many commentators, including the government and police authorities agreed that there were justifiable reasons for the #EndSARS protests owing to the excesses of officers in the unit, but in the heat of it, many ‘innocent’ and dedicated officers were killed.
“He was a good and caring man.
Since his demise, I have missed everything about him.
It is very painful because he has parents – both of them are here in Ibadan.
“My husband was committed to his job.
He was always assigned for special assignments in other states, and he diligently carried out his tasks until he was killed,” added Mrs Bolanle-Ajibola.
On her part, Mrs Oladele described her husband as a man who was good to motorists and respected others in the discharge of his duties.
“My husband was a good man to me.
He gave me whatever I needed without much stress.
He was nice to motorists.
In fact, many of them used to visit and give me money.
He respected people.
Many people have said so many good things about him.
“He loved his children and never joked with their wellbeing.
His death was horrible.
Those who witnessed the incident said he was seriously beaten before he died and they later set him on fire,’’
she said, dropping her head in her hands.
Three other officers were gruesomely murdered during the protest in Oyo State.
They were killed when hoodlums overwhelmed the police at Ojoo, Ibadan.
It was learnt that only the body of a 37-year-old James Akanmu was seen where it was allegedly dumped by the attackers.
The relatives of Alidu Yusuf Wada and Peter Agunbiade are still searching for the remains of their breadwinners.
Beauty James Akanmu told our correspondent that she spoke with her husband a few minutes before he was killed.
“I called him when I heard that the protesters were in Ojoo.
He told me that it had happened (they were under attack) and I asked him to leave the station immediately.
He said he was looking for how to leave.
As we were talking, his phone went off and that was the last conversation we had.
“Since that day till now, I have not heard from him again.
We called his phone number but it was not going through.
Three days later, I was called to check the stream where they were dumped.
We saw it, but they had taken everything on his body.
It was only his identity card and uniform that we saw on his body.
They had destroyed almost all the parts of his body.
‘We were able to recover the remaining part of his body and deposited it in a morgue,” she narrated as tears gushed out from her eyes.
It was uncontrollable as she became mute for some minutes before eulogising the late crime detector.
“He was the only one caring for the family.
I do not have anything to do.
He could do any legitimate business to care for the family, especially his children.
His three children are all boys.
His parents are dead.
“The last statement I had with him was to find a way out of the station, which he said he would try.
Before he was killed, nobody knew he was a police officer in the neighbourhood.
He never bragged,’’ she added.
‘I’m still searching for my husband’
Alidu Esther is still searching for the body of her husband, Alidu Yusuf Wada, more than 205 days after he was killed during the attack on the Ojoo police station.
Mrs Alidu couldn’t hide her pain as she recalled the last moment of her late husband, who she described as the only hope in her life.
Mr Wada had left home that fateful day with his usual promise to buy gifts for his four children on his way home.
Sadly, he never returned to that house.
She was informed of her husband’s death a day after the sad event.
And since then, the search for his remains has not yielded positive results.
“My husband was a good man.
It is very rare to get such kind-hearted husband.
He was a calm person and usually took care of his family.
He was the only family I had.
He was my father and mother.
He cared for me with everything he had.
He left four children for me to care for now.
“As we speak, we have not been able to recover his body.
I heard he was about to climb the building of the station to escape when they killed him.
When government officials got to the station to evacuate his body, they didn’t see it.
“His parents are still alive; they are in Kogi State.
I heard he was stripped naked, hit with sharp objects, dragged on the road in front of their office before he died.
I heard he struggled with them
but you know, since it was a mob attack, it was hard to survive,’’
she said, with tearful eyes.
A 42-year-old Inspector Peter Agunbiade, an exhibit keeper at the record department of the station, was also killed.
The father of four was burnt to death, according to his wife; yet nobody has been able to locate his remains.
Mrs Agunbiade said, “It was October 20.
He told me he was going to work as the DPO asked all of them to report to the office.
So, before 6am, he had left the house.
I and the children prayed for him because we were aware of the situation of things in the country at that time.
“He called me around 12pm, saying the station close to the highway at Ojoo had been razed by the EndsARS protesters.
I asked about his wellbeing and he said all of them had moved to the DPO’s office for safety.”
Despite the palpable fear and tension that hovered around him, the thought of his children and their wellbeing was topmost on the mind of the inspector.
He called his wife back, pleading that she should make all efforts to beat the protest, which had taken over all the major areas in the state and pick the children from school immediately.
The wife did that, but that was their last conversation as she couldn’t reach her husband again.
Sensing danger, Mrs Agunbiade ran to the station the following day, but the building was in total ruin.
It had been razed by the protesters.
It was deserted and there was nobody to talk to.
She ran to the police headquarters at Eleyele, but nobody was able to give her a satisfactory answer about the whereabouts of her darling husband as she was asked to contact the DPO of where her husband worked.
“Later, when I went to the headquarters at Eleyele, I met the DPO and he explained to me that those mobs were more than them.
He told me that my husband was beaten and burnt alive.
“He was a good man.
He was in charge of record keeping.
He was a recorder.
He wasn’t a troublesome man.
He was an exhibit keeper.
He was a graduate and hated violence.
He was not always in uniform.
People hardly saw him outside.
His parents are still alive.
“He was a caring husband to me and caring father to his children.
Even if it is the last money in his hand he would drop it for us.
“He was very calm.
Many people in our neighbourhood did not know him until he died.
His plan was to ensure that his children become graduates, but now, he is no more to fulfill his dreams.
We have not been able to recover his remains,’’ she narrated.
A 14-year-old twin of the late inspector said they were yet to recover from the shock of losing their father at a tender age.
They have two other younger siblings 
Kehinde Agunbiade, who spoke on behalf of the children said, “When we heard about it we felt broken and shattered.
We believe our dad was innocent, but the Bible says when the wicked are facing justice, the innocent will also be part of it.
“My father was gentle, kind and always found a way to help people.
He was supposed to go for the graduation of his master’s degree before the incident happened.”
Saved by his good deeds
If not for his good deeds, a Kogi State-born Yakubu Enemali would have been killed after hoodlums attacked the Ojoo division of the Nigeria Police Force, Ibadan during the protest, noted the woman who rescued him.
Three policemen were killed in the attack, but Enemali was rescued by a Good Samaritan.
Daily Trust gathered that the father of nine was rescued by a woman whom he had helped in the past.
The Good Samaritan, who refused to mention her name, for security purposes, confirmed to Daily Trust Saturday that Enemali was axed in the head and shot in his leg when she met him in a pool of blood.
Before the arrival of Enemali’s wife, the woman had taken the victim to a nearby clinic for first aid.
Seven months after he was rescued, Enemali is yet to utter a word.
He is in pain and can’t talk.
He usually misbehaves, having sleepless nights and hardly comprehends issues.
At the moment, though Enemali can recognise people, he cannot talk, which necessitated the need to undergo Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) brain test at the Chemical Pathology Department of the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan to determine the type of surgery to be carried out.
He was diagnosed with seizures at the MOP and SOP Department of the hospital.
According to a medical expert, Dr Mustapha Ajakaiye, seizure is a sudden, uncontrolled electrical disturbance in the brain.
It can cause changes in behaviour, movements or feelings and levels of consciousness.
Our correspondent who visited his residential apartment at the Idi-Omo area, Akinyele Local Government Area of Ibadan, observed that nothing was left in their sitting room.
Enemali’s wife, Tosin, who spoke with Daily Trust Saturday, said all their properties had been sold to take care of the health of her husband and the children.
“I am a fashion designer.
I sold all my sewing machines to care for him because I never knew it would take this long before he would regain consciousness.
Aside from my machines, I also sold all the chairs, television, home theatre and other valuables in our house.
As you can see, we don’t have anything again.
“I have invited somebody to buy the bed frame in the front of the house for me to be able to buy drugs for him.
I decided to stay with him because my husband is a good man.
I know he is alive today because of his good deeds.
“I didn’t know the woman who rescued him when hoodlums attacked him, but God saw his heart and made an escape route for him,” she said.
Cheated, forgotten and neglected
Six months after the #EndSARS protest which claimed the lives of many policemen, including six officers attached to the Lagos State command, their widows still await promises made to them by both the government and the Nigeria Police Force.
Since they lost their breadwinners, the plight of these widows can be described as a desperate struggle for survival as they are now left with no other choice but to fend for their children, a task which some of them were not exposed to during the lifetime of their husbands.
A good number of them are presently weighed down by these burdens that were suddenly placed on them by the cold hand of death.
Not able to cope, some of them have relocated to their villages.
The Lagos State Government was said to have given the widows N10million each, but that good gesture had also pitched them against the relatives of their late husbands.
Our correspondent reliably learnt from some of the widows that the money given to them by the state government was taken away from them by the relatives of their husbands.
They alleged that only a fraction of the total amount was later handed over to them by the heads of their respective families.
The widows of the deceased policemen said the former Inspector-General of Police Mohammed Adamu gave them N200,000 each while his wife gave them N100,000 each.
Those who spoke to our correspondent said they were eagerly expecting the scholarship the Police Force promised their children.
The officers who were killed in Lagos during the protest were Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP)
Edward Yard, attached to Denton station; Inspector Ayodeji Erinfolami, attached to the defunct anti kidnapping unit; Inspector Aderibigbe Adegbenro, attached to Meiran division; Sergeant Bejide Abiodun, attacked to DOPS SHQ; Ehibor Samson and one other attached to Orile division.
Daily Trust Saturday had earlier reported that a total of 16 police stations were set ablaze during the unrest in the state.
They included Orile, Amukoko, Layeni, Old Area J command, Ajah, Elemoro, New Area J command, Elemoro, Igando, Ebute-Ero, Ajah and its barracks and Ilasamaja police stations.
Others were Makinde and its barracks, Ikotun, Isokoko, Pen-Cinema, Onipanu, Alade police stations etc.
About 13 police formations were vandalised, amongst which were Ojo and Ojodu stations.
The following police posts were burnt: Cele, Ilogbo-Elerin, Shibiri, defunct anti-cultism office, Gbagada, defunct SARS office, Onilekere, Makoko, Daleko, Ashamu, Makinyo, Amuwo-Odofin, defunct anti-kidnapping office, Surulere and old SARS office, Ajegunle.
A total of 38 policemen from various formations/locations within the state sustained varying degrees of injury.
Back to the village
Hannaty Yard told our correspondent that she and her five children had relocated to their village.
She said she was still trying to put together the bits and pieces of her life after the demise of her husband.
“I have relocated to my village in Niger State, along with my children.
This is to afford me the opportunity to take care of my children properly.
“I will be in Lagos soon because my son, Jayjay, will be writing the Junior Secondary School (JSS) final examination, after which I will come back to the village to continue with my life.
“Life has not been easy for me since the death of my husband.
I am now responsible for things he was doing.
“If the government could fulfill the promise of scholarship they made to us, life would be better.
But right now, things have not been easy,’’ she lamented.
The 42-year-old widow, however, declined to say anything about the death of her husband, insisting that discussing it would bring back the memories she is still struggling to forget.
For Olamide Erinfolami, life has not been fair to her and her children.
The 39-year-old woman, who was thrown into early widowhood, said she lost the good part of her life to the cold hand of death.
She has also relocated to her village in Ekiti State.
She took their children along.
She  said, “I am now into petty trading in front of our house in Ado-Ekiti.
Whatever I get I use for my children.
I am still expecting the scholarship the Nigeria Police Force promised us.
It will remove the huge financial burden placed on me by the death of my husband.’’
The woes of widows of the slain policemen in Oyo State are compounded as there is no support yet from the state government.
They felt abandoned and rejected after their breadwinners paid the supreme price in the course of duties.
Beauty Akanmu urged the government at all levels to offer scholarships to their children.
“My husband served the Nigeria police during his lifetime; therefore, something should be done for his children.
As we are here now, we don’t have a house, no work and no family to care for us.
How do we survive?
We really need help from the government,” she said.
Alidu Esther, who was not working before her husband died, pleaded for the support of the government, noting that it has been difficult to feed and care for the children of the deceased officers.
The oldest was 12 years old while the youngest was one year and six months when the officer was killed
Mrs Agunbiade said the family was faced with many challenges, recalling that during the last festive period in December, there was nobody to support them.
“We are appealing to the government to assist our children.
Our children’s education is more important to us,” she said.
Her eldest children, 14-year-old Taiwo and Kehinde Agunbiade, appealed to the government at all levels to give them scholarships.
This story was funded by Daily Trust Foundation, with support from MacArthur Foundation.
Abiodun Alade & Eugene Agha, Lagos, Jeremiah Oke, Ibadan, Idowu Isamotu, Abuja

Developing Nigeria’s gas industry for the domestic market
The natural gas industry is a cultured industry that drives innovation and touches nearly every field and aspect of life that we care about.
From mobile phones to the makeup we wear, to medical devices, bank cards, and even the football we kick around with friends.
The industry is one of the building blocks of the things we need and love every day.
Natural gas is used for transportation, cooking, electricity generation, and manufacturing.
It is used as a raw material for making fertiliser, antifreeze, plastics, pharmaceuticals and fabrics.
The steel and paper industries also use natural gas to generate process steam for industrial applications.
Existing data shows Africa’s largest economy, Nigeria, has the largest natural gas reserves on the continent.
With oil, the industry accounts for about 70 per cent of its revenue, making the sector one of Nigeria’s best and most sought-after employment sectors.
Most of Nigeria’s electricity generation is from natural gas, while crude oil is primarily used for power backup.
A forecast by the U.S. Energy Information Administration shows that natural gas will be the largest global electricity generation source.
Natural gas brings with it several quality-of-life environmental benefits because it is a relatively clean-burning fuel.
Globally, the sector is producing millions of jobs, with employment up 40 per cent since the Great Recession of 2008 in the U.S. alone.
Thus, given its existing gas reserves, it will be surprising to see Nigeria not leading the continent’s gas industry.
On 29th March 2021, President Buhari launched the country’s Decade of Gas.
The aim is to transform Nigeria into a gas-powered industrialised economy by 2030.
Developing the gas industry will boost other industries through the provision of electricity and raw materials.
Here, we will shed light on three points: some critical gas development policies, the potential benefits of developing the gas industry for the domestic market, and the employment opportunities in the gas industry.
Since the discovery of gas in Nigeria, there have been subsequent attempts to develop the industry.
For example, the gas commercialisation and utilisation programmes contributed to reducing gas flaring and increased gas utilisation by about 300 per cent between 1995 and 2017.
There were gas pipeline projects which concentrated on the western part of the country and the continent.
The first Escravos to Lagos Pipeline System (ELPS) was commissioned in 1989 to supply Lagos and neighbouring South-west states.
Following the success of the ELPS, the government agreed to supply Ghana, Benin, and Togo through the Western African Gas Pipeline, which was commissioned in 2006.
However, these projects were not favourable to the country’s domestic market, given the persistent issues of power in the country.
Evidently, Nigeria’s power sector is challenged with poor electricity facilities, natural gas supply shortages, inefficient distribution network and inadequate transmission system.
According to the International Energy Agency’s 2018 estimate, only 60 per cent of Nigeria
’s population had access to electricity.
Power shortage has limited the growth of the country’s total production across all sectors.
It has caused many businesses to close or move to neighbouring countries completely.
It was challenging for new start-ups and for attracting foreign investment.
The lack of electricity has contributed to the high inflation rate – as businesses pay for an expensive alternative electricity source, their production cost increases, which increases the prices of goods and services.
To mitigate these issues, the Buhari administration commissioned gas infrastructure projects to promote gas use in the domestic market.
The projects include the second Escravos to Lagos Pipeline System (ELPS-2), Obiafu – Obrikom –
Oben (OB3) gas line and the Ajaokuta to Kaduna to Kano (AKK) gas line.
The AKK gas line project will pass through Abuja from Ajaokuta.
Then we will see another line from Abuja to Kaduna, then from Kaduna to Zaria, and from Zaria to Kano.
With hindsight, these projects should have been done since the turn of the millennium.
Nonetheless, these are notable projects and should be appraised with optimism.
The projects are expected to guarantee net investment return.
The gas lines will provide gas to cement firms, other industrial concerns, and residential customers.
The users of compressed natural gas like buses and trucks will be able to buy the product cheaper as its supply increases.
The government is also planning to build three new gas-fired power plants for power generation plants, located in Abuja, Kaduna, and Kano, to use the pipeline’s gas to generate 3,600 MW power.
The power plant will provide electricity to households and many industries in the northern part of the country.
The benefit of producing a decent amount of power and raw materials from gas will translate to a success story.
For example, resuscitating the textile industry will mean reviving its largest manufacturing sub-sector, which accounted for 22 per cent of employment and 15 per cent of manufacturing value-added in 1984.
In the long run, the tax revenue from the performing industries and employees will outweigh the cost of pipeline projects.
If government policies are successful, all other things being equal, the natural gas industry will be a major source of job opportunities for Nigeria’s rising labour force.
The industry has a high concentration of contractors and sub-contractors, with different work split between specialists.
The gas industry jobs are characterised as semi-skilled and skilled craft trades positions.
The jobs in the sector are not restricted to petroleum engineers alone.
Many roles do not need special education.
The skills can be learned on the job, from attorneys to welders to architects, truck drivers, and accountants.
The industry also pays above minimum wage.
This means that the industry has an enormous opportunity to attract, retain, and develop lifelong careers for individuals as the industry expands.
Finding jobs in the industry is similar to other sophisticated, high-tech industries.
Employees should have a decent education, some certification as an industry specialist would be an advantage, training and a little experience could go a long way.
Therefore, as the government is laying out policies for the Decade of Gas, the opportunity for capacity development is opening.
The education sector can explore the training curriculum for the industry and ways to attract industry experts who can contribute to capacity development.
In conclusion, The Decade of Gas is a desirable policy.
It is an opportunity for Nigeria to develop its gas industry, even though it looks a bit too late for this adminitration.
Thus, the next government and all the relevant stakeholders should consider this ingenuity to transform the country into a gas-powered industrialised economy.
Dr Nasir Aminu is the Programme Director, Economics, Cardiff School of Management, United Kingdom

Kidnapping: Abuja suburb requests police division
Residents of Tungan Maje, a suburb of Gwagwalada Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), have called on the Inspector General of Police (IGP) to establish a police division to help tackle crime in the area.
The community has suffered series of kidnapping for ransom in the past few months and the people say they now live in fear.
Some residents who spoke with Daily Trust also expressed desire to meet with the FCT Commissioner of Police, Bala Ciroma.
The Chief of Tungan Maje, Alhaji Salisu Isiaku Na’annabi, debunked a newspaper publication that quoted unnamed sources claiming that his people decried the withdrawal of police from the community.
He clarified that the claim that the community’s members paid police N20,000 every day for feeding allowance during their assignment in the area was untrue.
He said, “The police special squad was not withdrawn from the area but was deployed to Kuje to carry out an assignment
and they would return to the community when they are done.
Prof Ichado
Sunday, a resident and leader of non indigenes in the community, said the FCT Police Command, the traditional ruler and prominent residents of the community had collaborated to ensure security of the area in the past months.
He stressed that the establishment of a police station would go a long way to address kidnapping and armed robbery in the area.
Barr David Aigbefoh, another resident, who said the community had provided land for the building of the police division, called on the IGP for speedy implementation and construction of the station.

Kim Kardashian officially a billionaire, says Forbes
Kim Kardashian West has been named on the World’s Billionaires list for the first by Forbes.
Forbes estimates that Kardashian West is now worth $1 billion, up from $780 million in October, thanks to two lucrative businesses—KKW Beauty and Skims—as well as cash from reality television and endorsement deals, and a number of smaller investments.
The first time she was mentioned in the pages of Forbes in 2011, it was simply a tally of her Twitter followers: 6.6 million, just below Barack Obama and just above Ashton Kutcher.
Five years later, she graced the cover of Forbes thanks to her booming mobile game, which helped her earn $51 million that year.
Kardashian West founded KKW Beauty in 2017, following the success of her half-sister Kylie Jenner’s Kylie Cosmetics.
She borrowed from Kylie’s playbook, using a similar direct-to-consumer model that relies heavily on social media marketing.
Her first launch, 300,000 contour kits, sold out within two hours.
By 2018, the business had expanded into eyeshadows, concealers, lipsticks and fragrances, and was bringing in about $100 million in revenue.
“It’s the first time I’ve moved away from having licensing deals and transitioned into being an owner,” Kardashian West told Forbes in 2017, when she announced her cosmetics line.
She cashed in on that ownership last year when she sold 20% of KKW Beauty to cosmetics conglomerate Coty for $200 million, a deal that valued the company at $1 billion.
While Forbes estimates that figure is a little bloated—Coty, which also bought 51% of Kylie Cosmetics in 2020, is known for overpaying—her remaining 72% stake is still worth about $500 million, by Forbes’ account.
Then there’s
Skims, the shapewear line Kardashian West launched in 2019.
She raised money from fashion insiders like Net-a-Porter’s Natalie Massane and Theory’s Andrew Rosen, and capitalized on her massive social media following to shill the brand.
She now has 69.6 million Twitter followers and 213 million followers on Instagram.
Skims has been quick on its feet:
During the pandemic, when consumers became more interested in comfy clothes for the couch than in smoothing their stomachs under evening gowns, she swiftly started turning the focus to loungewear.
Kardashian West owns a majority stake in closely-held Skims, which hasn’t disclosed its revenues.
A source familiar with Skims told Forbes about a transaction that values the shapewear company north of $500 million.
As a result, Forbes estimates her Skims stake is worth a conservative $225 million, enough to lift her fortune to $1 billion.
The rest of Kardashian West’s fortune sits in cash and investments, including real estate.
Every year since 2012, she has earned at least $10 million pretax, by Forbes’ count, thanks to paychecks from Keeping Up With the Kardashians, endorsement deals and endeavors like the aforementioned mobile game and her now-defunct Kimoji app.
She’s also got three properties in Calabasas, northwest of Los Angeles, and a portfolio of blue-chip investments, including shares of Disney, Amazon, Netflix and Adidas that her soon-to-be ex-husband Kanye West gifted her for Christmas in 2017.
But it’s the companies that she has launched herself, and grown with the typical Kardashian flare for self-promotion, that land her on the World’s Billionaires list.
As she tweeted the day she made the cover of Forbes, mocking the criticism she’s received for years: “Not bad for a girl with no talent.”
(FORBES)

As rabbit demand increases, farmer explains how youths can key in
Rabbit farming is not common in Nigeria but the demand for rabbit meat is growing in the country – same as it is in Europe and Asia.
According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), an estimated 1.2 billion rabbits are slaughtered annually for meat.
The South African National Agricultural Marketing Council, in June 2020, revealed that 1.48 million tons of rabbit meat were produced in 2017.
China was the leading producer, accounting for 62.9% of the global production, followed by North Korea (10.4%), Spain (3.9%) and Egypt (3.8%), among others.
“By the end of 2019, Hungary, China, France and Spain were the major contributors to the global trade balance of rabbit meat by value.
Germany, Belgium and Italy are the leading importers commanding 21%, 19.2% and 9.3% share of global imports, respectively,” according to statistics.
Here in Nigeria, a farm, Wise Trust Int’l Ltd, is changing the narrative amidst huge and rising demand for rabbit meat and breeding stock in the country.
Driven by a passion for white meat, the farmer, Pastor Tayo Ayinla, said his first motivation for the rabbit business was basically the health benefit because people of his age medically have to cut down on consumption of red meat and move towards white meat, adding that the motivation further led to the discovery of its economic benefits.
The pastor has, perhaps, the biggest rabbit farm in the Federal Capital Territory.
He has 17 different species of rabbits on the farm, which he started just a year ago in Karshi, in Abuja Municipal Area Council.
He raises them in cages, locally constructed hutches and in free-range.
This reporter, who was in Karshi, visited the farm where the pastor shared his knowledge of rabbit farming so that others can key into it.
He also has rabbits on another farm in Kwara State.
Some of the free-range rabbitry in the farm
How rabbits multiply
He said if a farmer has about 60 to 70 doe (the female rabbit is called a doe and the male buck) with an average of five births per rabbit, he will have a very good number per year.
“For instance, on this farm, we have seen a doe give birth to 10, 11 rabbits
but I want to be more conservative.
So let’s say five rabbits as an average; then one rabbit can give a farmer between 25 to 30 rabbits in a year because with good management they can reproduce four to six times a year.
“So if he gets five in a year that’s 25,
multiplied by the 60 that we are talking about that is 1,600 rabbits in a year.
Of course, you can even get more than that.”
Demand for rabbit meat
The demand for rabbit meat is growing and according to Pastor Ayinla, at no time has the demand been fully met.
He told this reporter that he had received an order for 10 tons of rabbit meat from the Southwest but “It is very difficult to get even one ton,” he said.
“At times, you have a person requesting 2,500 rabbits for breeding but hardly will he get up to 500.
There was a time we got a request for 2,500 rabbits for breeding stock in the whole of the North (the client organisation has a Northern representative in Abuja here), but in the whole of the North, we only supplied a little above 200 out of the order placed for 2,500.
“So rabbitry is an upcoming ATM money dispenser.
Very soon it is going to be a money dispensing business,” he said.
The rabbit value chain
The farmer explained the rabbit value chain thus: “Most of us don’t know the benefits we have in rabbit rearing.
Number one, there’s a lot of value in rabbit farming.
As a farmer you can make money from selling the rabbits breeding stock to another farmer; you can sell rabbit meat to those that want it; You can also get income through the sale of their poo or from the conversion of their poo into gas for cooking, or generation of electricity and what is left of that process can be used as fertiliser.
“Most people use the rabbit wastes directly as fertiliser but that is not as effective as when you passed the poo through some processes.
Also, the urine can be used as a pesticide in the production of vegetables.”
Cost of starting a rabbit farm
With just N25,000 to N30,000 a farmer can start rabbit farming.
The good thing is that anybody can do it; an old person can do it because the management is very easy.
You don’t need a particular place to do rabbit farming because they’re neat animals, they don’t smell.
You can actually do it in your house even for a person with a two-bedroom flat.
For instance, you can convert one of the rooms.
They don’t smell.
The farmers can always come and buy from us; we will assist them to set up their farms.
And like I just said, in our own little way, we started about a year ago.
Rabbit feeds
The good thing about rabbits is that their feeding is not demanding; they eat just about anything.
For instance, the way we handle ours here, we usually go to people selling cabbage and collect the outer cover of the cabbage; it’s good for them.
Also at the watermelon sellers, people usually eat the red part only and throw away the cover.
The cover is medicinal for them.
Also, we go to the market where they sell carrots to pick the leaves.
Virtually what rabbits eat is almost free, and it becomes much easier
when the rain starts then we can get plenty of fresh leaves for them.
A word for the youths 
“My advice to the youth is that they should understand that the government can’t meet all our needs.
The reason we are having some of the problems is that so many people want government jobs and if you now look at government budget, a situation whereby 70 to 80 per cent of government income is used for recurrent expenditure, we can’t expect any magic from the government.
“First and foremost, you need to look inward: what can I do for myself.
Until you’re able to do something for yourself you can’t do anything for the country.
You should also understand that there are a lot of opportunities as far as this country is concerned.
“Some people will tell you that they want to do so and
so
but there’s no market
so the question is: how can you be in a country with over 200 million people and
you’re saying there’s no market?
It is either you don’t understand how to market what you’re doing
or you don’t understand how to do business.
“Like in rabbit, if you see how our rabbits are, the business will attract you, they’re looking so robust.
So people say I have never seen a rabbit as big as this.
It’s the way we have been able to manage them in terms of what we feed them and the environment that we have created for them.
So people should begin to look inwards.’’

Only e-voting will ensure rancour free polls in Nigeria -Diri
Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, says the hitch-free conduct of the recent Ijaw National Congress (INC) election through electronic voting indicated that Nigeria can hold rancour-free national elections by adopting such measures.
Diri who stated this during the inauguration of the new INC leadership at the Ijaw House in Yenagoa, urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to adopt electronic voting to avoid conflicts during elections.
He noted that the failure of the country’s electoral body to adopt e-voting has led to politicisation of revered state institutions and disrespect to such institutions.
The governor also explained that the adoption of e-voting would provide an opportunity for Nigerians in the Diaspora to choose their leaders through the ballot.
He said: “I am an advocate and supporter of electronic voting system.
Many Nigerians have been denied the right to vote because they are not in Nigeria and cannot participate in choosing their leaders.
“It is a challenge to Nigeria.
Let the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) be challenged.
If the Ijaws can do it, the Federal Government can also do it.
“If Ijaws can enfranchise Ijaws in Europe and America to be part of deciding who leads them, INEC can equally do it.
It will check violence, criminality and state institutions being politicised,” he said.
In his inaugural address, the new INC President, Professor Benjamin Okaba, assured that the body would work for the progress of the Ijaw people.
Prof. Okaba noted that the INC fully supported the recent pronouncement by governors of southern Nigeria prohibiting open grazing in the region, saying the organisation would provide the necessary support to ensure adherence to laws aimed at protecting the people and their land against invasion from external forces.
He stated that INC would collaborate with other ethnic minorities that share the same experiences with the Ijaws to achieve their dreams, said the ethnic group was aware of surreptitious moves by some groups to annex territories in the Niger Delta because of its resources, but that no part of Ijaw would be ceded or conquered.

Maize’ll be Scarce in 2021, maize farmers raise alarm
Farmers in Oke-Ogun area of Oyo State under the banner of Association of Farm Settlers on Sunday said failed flood forecast and lack of government input in agriculture would make maize scarce in the year 2021.
The farmers said it’s members lost millions of naira in the year 2020 planting season as a result of government ‘failure to support agricultural produce.’
Daily Trust reports that Oke-Ogun area of Oyo state is regarded as the food basket of the entire southwest states of Nigeria.
The group made this disclosure in a communique issued after its emergency meeting held in Iseyin area of the state to address the plight of maize farmers in the state.
The farmers claimed many of its members had decided not to deal with maize planting again because of lack of farm implements and manpower.
In a communique signed by their Chairman, Mr Alabi Kazeem and dated Saturday 26th December, 2020, which was made available to newsmen in Ibadan on Sunday, the body claimed its members immediately went to access loans from commercial banks and private individuals to plant maize when they heard about a better future but turn out to be false rain forecast.
“Many of our members have decided not to plant maize again because of the poor and unstable rainfall, when they heard about the government’s forecast through the meteorology department as well as the rigorous campaign from Oyo State Ministry of Environment and Water Resources that there would be lot of rain towards the end of October and November, they sought for fund to plant maize.
“It is very unfortunate that the failed forecast led to a staggering loss to our members, they lost millions in bank loans and borrowing from family and friends to plant maize, many cannot even pass by their farms to see the withered maize farms, we are so hurt by this occurrence.
“In as much as we are not blaming the federal and State government for issuing flood alerts to safeguard lives and properties, including those of farmers, we are using this opportunity to appeal to them to support us, our members are running from pillars to post to repay loans they took from banks and from individuals.”
The communique further said the two layers of government and the Central bank of Nigeria should put in their best measures to avert food scarcity, especially scarcity of maize in 2021 as most maize farmers in Nigeria lost their crops to the drought.
The Association of Government Farm Settlers, Ipapo-Iseyin branch which represented farmers in Oke-Ogun area of Oyo State used the occasion of the emergency meeting to call on President Muhammadu Buhari to evolve new measures to assist farmers determine weather forecast and also provide basic supports to genuine farmers.
They also extended their call to the governor of Oyo State to keep his ‘promise’ of extending the coverage of funding for farm settlements to their association which represented the ten local government areas in Oke-Ogun from the recent loan accessed by the administration to develop the farm settlements.
“Our fear for now is what will be the fate of poor Nigerians that depend largely on basic food items that are sourced from maize, it is easy to predict that there will be scarcity of maize next year with what happened this year, unless government quickly evolve a way out to assist farmers to surmount this problem.
“Our governor in Oyo State has shown an unparalleled love for farmers in Oyo State and we can all see that he is out to make agriculture the major pillar to promote the State’s economy, we are calling on him to please extend the funding from the loan for farm settlement to us at Oke-Ogun,” Alabi pleaded.

Kobe Bryant inducted posthumously into Basketball Hall of Fame
Los Angeles Lakers icon, Kobe Bryant, has been inducted posthumously into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame on Saturday as part of a star-studded group that also included Tim Duncan and Kevin Garnett.
Bryant was inducted as part of the Class of 2020, almost 16 months after he and his 13-year-old daughter, Gianna, were killed in a helicopter crash along with seven others in southern California.
Bryant’s wife, Vanessa Bryant, took the podium Saturday to speak movingly about his love for basketball, his family, his teammates and his fans.
“You did it.
You are in the Hall of Fame now.
You are a true champion, not just an MVP.
You are an all-time great,” Vanessa said.
San Antonio Spurs star Duncan, Minnesota Timberwolves and Boston Celtics
big man Garnett, two-time NBA champion coach Rudy Tomjanovich and WNBA legend Tamika Catchings were among those also inducted on Saturday night.
The delayed enshrinement stretched over two days at the Mohegan Sun Resort and Casino in Uncasville, Connecticut, with Vanessa Bryant and Kobe’s oldest daughter, Natalia, accepting Bryant’s Hall of Fame jacket and ring on Friday night.
Bryant and the others were voted into the Hall of Fame as part of the 2020 class, but the formal induction ceremony was delayed because of the COVID-19 pandemic.
“There will never be anyone like Kobe,” Vanessa said.
“Kobe was one of a kind.
He was special.
He was humble — off the court — but bigger than life.”
Vanessa was helped to the stage by NBA legend Michael Jordan, who acted as a presenter for Kobe and three-time NCAA champion coach Kim Mulkey.
“He and Gigi deserved to be here to witness this.
Gigi would have been so proud of her dad getting into the Hall of Fame,” Vanessa said.
Like Kobe, Garnett went straight out of high school to the NBA.
Garnett talked of his respect and admiration for both Duncan and Kobe.
“I appreciate you,” Garnett said to Duncan from the stage.
“It’s an honour to go into the hall with you, bro.
You and Kob.”
Garnett played 21 seasons for Minnesota, Boston and Brooklyn, averaging 17.8 points and 10.0 rebounds per game.
“My only regret with Minnesota is that I didn’t get to bring a championship,” Garnett said.
“But like I said, I look forward to rebuilding Minneapolis.”
Duncan had an immediate impact in the NBA, winning the rookie of the year award.
His first NBA title came just one year after that.
(AFP)

Werder Bremen relegated after 40 years in Bundesliga
Werder Bremen were relegated from the Bundesliga for the first time in 41 years on Saturday after a 4-2 thrashing at home by Borussia Moenchengladbach.
“At the moment it’s hard to say anything,” caretaker coach Thomas Schaaf, who stepped in after Florian Kohfeldt was sacked last weekend, told Sky.
“We didn’t manage to do what we wanted to do.
“We missed the huge opportunity to equalise, which we needed.
We fought back too late.”
Cologne’s 1-0 win over bottom side Schalke, who were already relegated, confirmed Bremen’s worst fears, sending them down for the first time since 1979-80 when they came back up a season later.
Bremen paid the price for taking one point from their last 10 league games in Germany’s top flight, finishing 17th in the table, two points behind Cologne who have a two-legged relegation play-off next week.
Bremen made the worst possible start when Gladbach captain Lars Stindl was left alone in the penalty area and fired into the bottom right corner with just three minutes gone.
Gladbach doubled their lead early in the second half when Marcus Thuram got in behind the defence and fired past Bremen goalkeeper Jiri Pavlenka.
A towering header by Ramy Bensebaini and a Florian Neuhaus goal made it 4-0 before Bremen fought back as forward Milot Rashica and Niclas Fuellkrug scored late on, but to no avail.

Veteran Fraser-Pryce eyes Doha springboard to Tokyo
Jamaican sprint star Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce takes another step in her quest to become the first female athlete to win three Olympic 100m golds when she takes to the track for another loaded race in Friday’s Diamond League meet in Doha.
Fresh from finishing fourth in the opening elite meeting in a wet, wind-swept Gateshead last week behind world
200m champion Dina Asher-Smith, US sprint sensation Sha’Carri Richardson and Ivory Coast’s
Marie-Josee
Ta Lou, Fraser-Pryce insisted that the stronger the field, the better.
“The harder the competitions are, the better I am at performing.
I like a challenge
, I like it when competition is hard,” said the 34-year-old Olympian.

Two killed in cult clash in Edo
Two persons were reportedly killed in a renewed clash between two cult group in Benin City, Edo State capital.
It was gathered that the rivalry between the cult groups began on Saturday following the killing of one Ogbomo, allegedly by a rival group.
Ogbomo was said to have been killed by a four-man gang at about 4:pm along Esigie street, 3rd Circular Road, Benin on Saturday.
It was learnt that the rival group on Monday afternoon retaliated with another killing.
On the Monday killing, it was gathered that the gang allegedly waylaid a commercial bus driver along 3rd Circular road by Esigie junction and shot him dead.
An eyewitness who only identified himself as Okharedia said: “I and other passengers boarded a commercial bus from Ekiosa market to New Benin by Upper mission junction.
Halfway into the journey, an Audi car overtook us and forced the driver to stop.
“The next thing the gunmen came out of the Audi car and dragged the bus driver out of the steering and fired him at closed range
When contacted, the Edo state public relations officer, Kotongs Bello, said he is not aware of the development.
He said, the divisional police officers of various police station usually briefed the command of any development but “I am not aware of this one”

SWAN urges Gov’t to investigate Wikki Tourist’s poor outings
Bauchi State Chapter of Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN) has called for an investigation into the recent poor outings of Wikki Tourists FC in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL).
Bala Bawaji, the state SWAN secretary, said this in a statement on Monday in Bauchi.
“SWAN is calling on the government to as a matter of urgency set-up a committee to look into the problems facing the club with a view to finding a lasting solution.
“The team currently occupies the 15th position on the league table with only 24 points from 21 matches.
“This does not reflect the State Government investment in the club,” he said.
The SWAN secretary pointed out that investigating the club would allow the government to examine and x-ray its lacklustre performance at the league.
“SWAN calls on the management and players of the club to brace up and return the state darling team to its position of eminence,” he said.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the club in its last two matches suffered a devastating 1-5 away defeat in the hands of Katsina United FC in Katsina and a 2-1 home defeat by Nasarawa United FC of Lafia.(NAN)

Dessers scores, Onuachu bags assist as Genk demolish Antwerp
Cyriel Dessers found the back of the net while Paul Onuachu provided an assist as Genk secured a 4-0 victory over Royal Antwerp in the Belgian First Division A Championship Group game on Thursday.
His compatriot Onuachu was handed a starting role and utilized the opportunity to continue his impressive performances.
The game started with both sides aiming to outwit each other but despite their efforts, they failed to get the ball into the back of the net in the opening 40 minutes.
With two minutes left to the half-time break, Kristian Thorstvedt broke the deadlock to hand the Blue and White the lead.
John van den Brom’s
men doubled their lead in the 49th minute when Thorstvedt scored after benefitting from Onuachu’s assist.
Thorstvedt completed his hat-trick moments after the hour mark before Dessers was brought on for Onuachu in the 74th minute.
The centre-forward immediately made his impact felt, sealing the victory for the Blue and White three minutes after his introduction.

Bank’s assets declaration and corruption war
Recently, Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Abdurasheed Bawa, made a declaration that the Bank Employees Assets Declaration Act of 1986 would be resuscitated to block loopholes created by bankers to sanitise the country’s financial system.
According to Bawa, the decision was taken due to the role bankers are expected to play in the fight against corruption, as the EFCC is mandated to ensure compliance with the Act.
Section 1 of the Bank Employees Declaration of Assets Act 1986 makes it mandatory for every employee of the bank to make full disclosure of assets upon employment on an annual basis.
The law under Section 7 Sub-Section 1 stipulates that it shall be an offence for an employee of a bank to own assets in excess of their legitimate and probable income.
After the deadline as stipulated by the EFCC Chairman, there are consequences that will arise as a result of non-declaration of assets by bank employees.
For instance, there is a spelt out penalty of 10 years imprisonment upon conviction as well as forfeiture of assets beyond and above legitimate income and probable earnings of such bank employees.
This piece of legislation has been in existence since 1986 under the military.
For a long time, this part of the constitution was rendered ineffective by those who ordinarily should implement it.
Bankers have always been aware of this legislation but the level of compliance has not been encouraging.
In the 80s, bankers were handed such forms which they completed and submitted.
But as it’s always the case in the country, the implementation of that provision of the law was more or less abandoned, and it was no longer considered as a fundamental part of the banking profession.
Stakeholders blame the failure of authorities including the CBN, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) and Bankers Committee for certain abnormalities in the industry.
According to them, these regulators rely on the banks they are supposed to supervise, to supply them information.
For instance, they argued that the failed banks episode happened barely some months after the regulators had given those banks clean bills of health.
This suggests that the information supplied by the banks may have been doctored.
Nigeria has been battling with cases of corruption and money laundering, with bankers and bank officials accused of being accomplices.
Some monies have remained redundant in many accounts due to the death of the owners of the accounts, which some bank officials convert to theirs while leaving families of the account owners in penury.
This is in spite of the fact that the banking sector is no stranger to self-regulation, given its tempting, delicate and fragile operating system.
As a matter of fact, the CIBN Act of 2007 has been regulating the banking system.
It has a code of conduct to which bankers agreed with the CBN.
There is a disciplinary tribunal that has the power of the High Court, which ensures that reported infractions, unethical conduct and indiscipline are brought before the tribunal, and sanctions recommended for formal prosecution.
But one of the challenges has been the weak reporting system by bankers, leading to the inability of CIBN to take appropriate actions.
The spirit behind the Act of 1986 is to make clear, the financial standing of bank employees at the time of employment, and after years of service, in a bid to ascertain that their legitimate earnings are commensurate with their current lifestyles.
This is coming on the heels of allegations that some bankers are direct beneficiaries of fraudulent transactions that are carried out in the bank.
What is common knowledge is the asset declaration by public officers including civil servants, politically exposed persons and those who work in the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs).
They are required to declare their assets every four years.
For political officeholders, upon their election or appointment, before they assume office, they are supposed to declare their assets at the point of entry and also at the point of exit.
This declaration is done on oath.
In other words, there is execution and attestation before a High Court or some other superior officer of the law.
The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), among others, are already covered by the Code of Conduct Act with regard to the declaration of their assets.
As it stands, financial experts believe that the impression created by the directive to bankers to comply with the pre-existing piece of legislation amounts to stigmatisation and also isolates bank employees, which puts them in the limelight.
In other words, there is the belief that the revisiting of the Act of 1986 encourages the policy of isolation that is causing apprehension in the industry.
There are concerns that the Act may cause enrolment into the banking profession to further go down as a result of stigmatisation.
However, some stakeholders caution against the drama about stigmatisation, arguing that a lot of bankers, from the highest cadre to the lowest level, are living above their means.
According to them, an average banker even from their early point of calling, cuts corners by conniving with customers that want to beat the system.
They insist that for every major corruption, there is a banker that has facilitated the transaction.
It is laudable that the EFCC is trying to use the Act for good reasons.
But the worry is that the banks essentially are not owned by the government per se although the government has shares in them.
Banks are largely private-driven.
More importantly, there are existing laws that can check illicit enrichment.
Article 20 of the UN Convention Against Corruption is explicit on this.
Section 7 of the EFCC Act empowers EFCC to investigate persons whose lifestyles are not commensurate with their means of income.
It is believed in certain quarters that the assets of this country have been plundered the most by politically exposed persons, many of whom remain untouchable.
As such, EFCC has been accused of not being fair and even-handed in its mandate on tackling public sector corruption including false declaration.
If the banking sector is sanitised, it will have a ripple effect on all other sectors of the economy.
All these measures are taken to strengthen the fight against corruption, and not to stigmatise the banking profession or portray it as the scapegoat within the system.
Besides, the banking career is not a roguish profession.
Some bankers are at the forefront of exposing some of the mega corruption issues that we have seen the EFCC making headway.
Part of the essence of this law is to ensure that the country is free from financial crimes, and also to block the loopholes being exploited by unscrupulous players in the sector to undermine the national economy through money laundering and illicit financial flows.
While it is hoped that the Act of 1986 is a sincere attempt at sanitising the system, there should be a platform created to report thresholds of deposits on a daily basis, and the regulators should be able to access it to know the declarations made.
This makes for easy reference to what has been declared as legitimate income to check those living above their means.
Moses Amadi, a researcher, sent this piece from Lagos

I mistakenly killed a passerby but a robbery suspect was my target – vigilante
A 30-year-old member of a local vigilante, Lukma Rasak, who was arrested for killing a passerby in Ijora, a Lagos suburb, said he made a mistake.
The suspect was alleged to have shot dead a 28-year-old man, Musa Yahaya, in the area.
The suspect had allegedly fled the scene of the crime having realized his mistake.
He was allegedly tracked down to his hiding place by policemen attached to Ijora Police Station, Lagos State Police Command.
Lagos State Police spokesman, Muyiwa Adejobi, in a statement issued on Wednesday night, said the crime occurred in the early hours of Tuesday, April 13, 2021.
Adejobi said the suspect was eventually arrested at about 2 pm after the victim, who was rushed to the hospital, was confirmed dead.
He said detectives tracked the suspect to his hiding place, where he was arrested and his gun with some cartridges were recovered.

Constitution review: Senate holds public hearing in 12 states
The Senate Constitution Review Committee has said that a zonal public hearing on the review of the 1999 Constitution would be held from May 26 to 27.
The event which would be held simultaneously across 12 states in Nigeria would witness two public hearings per geopolitical zone.
Also, a national public hearing is expected to be held in Abuja, the nation’s capital.
Chairman, Senate Committee on Constitution Review and Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, disclosed this yesterday in Abuja.
Speaking while hosting members of the Legal Defence and Assistance Project (LEPAD) in his office led by its National Coordinator, Chino Obiagwu (SAN), Senator Omo-Agege called on those who have already submitted memoranda to speak at the events.
Represented by his Chief of Staff, Dr. Otive Igbuzor, Senator Omo-Agege said while the North Central would hold the public hearing in Jos and Minna, the North East and North West would hold theirs in Bauchi and Gombe as well as Kaduna and Sokoto respectively.
According to him, the South East would hold the hearing in Owerri and Enugu, while the South South and South West would do it in Port Harcourt and Asaba as well as Akure and Lagos respectively.

Rabbit farming booms in Plateau
The Secretary, Plateau Rabbit Breeders Association, Mr Pam Gyang, says rabbit farming has become popular in the state with many residents engaging in it.
Gyang who said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Jos, said it has become a household business just like poultry farming.
Gyang said that many training outfits involved in the breeding and selling of live rabbits were springing up across the state.
The secretary said that rabbit rearing as a lucrative business could increase an individual’s income and impact positively on the economy.
“Rabbits are highly fertile and farmers sell according to their weight ranging from N1,800 to N5,000 or even more, ” he said.
He said that during the lockdown occasioned by COVID-19 families came to the farm to request for rabbit’s cages and rabbits to startup farms at their backyards.
He said that the high demand for rabbit’s meat as a result of its numerous health benefits over red meat aroused the interest of many farmers.
Gyang said that rabbit has low mortality rate and required minimal handling, adding that many people invested in rearing them to meet international market standard.
“Our rabbit meat had gone as far as London and we still export them whenever they were demanded, “he said.
He also said that farmers could generate resources from the sale of the hide and skin of rabbit for textile industries and its faeces as source of fertilizer.
(NAN)

Aero expands with Abuja-Bauchi flight
Nigeria’s oldest airline, Aero Contractors, has concluded an arrangement to commence flights from Abuja to Bauchi four times weekly beginning from Wednesday as part of its route expansion programme.
The Bauchi flight would be closely followed by those of Maiduguri in Borno State and Calabar in Cross River on dates to be announced soon, according to the airline.
The Managing Director of the Aero, Capt Abdullahi Mahmood, at a press conference in Lagos, said the Abuja-Bauchi flights would be operated every Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday.
According to the schedule, the Bauchi flight will depart Abuja at 09:10 am, arriving at Bauchi at 10:10 am.
The return leg will then depart Bauchi at 10:40 am, and arrive in Abuja at 11:40 on weekdays, while on Sunday the flight will depart Abuja for Bauchi at 09:50 am, with the return flight from Bauchi at 11:20 am.
The MD explained that passengers from Lagos could fly to Bauchi via Abuja using the 06:45 am flight out of Lagos.
He further said, “We believe that these routes will add fresh breadth to our schedule and complement the quest to rebuild our network to other cities as part of our strategy to expand.
Bauchi and Maiduguri are some of the underserved cities in Northern Nigeria.”
He added that the airline’s Boeing 737-400 which would be used for the new routes had just been released from C-Check conducted at the Aero maintenance hangar

Farmers raise concerns as CBN suspends Anchor Borrowers loans
Farmers and other stakeholders in the agricultural sector are expressing concern over the suspension of agricultural loans accessed through the Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) recently.
NIRSAL, a US$500 million non-bank financial institution wholly owned by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), was established in 2013 to catalyse the flow of finance and investments into fixed agricultural value chains and de-risk agric lending across the country to achieve food self-sufficiency and economic diversification.
It handles most of the agric loans to farmers by the CBN, especially its popular Anchor Borrower Programme (ABP).
Now, the apex bank has said it suspects fraudulent activities in NIRSAL loans under the ABP and ordered for the suspension of such loans until all previously beneficiaries have paid back.
It is not yet clear if the suspension is on the CBN Anchor Borrowers Programme alone or also includes those of Micro finance banks through NIRSAL.
The suspension has grounded loan activities in NIRSAL and farmers are worried that, among others, the timing was wrong, as many of them have already gone far with plans to expand their agricultural production.
A farmer, Remini Femi, who appeared visibly worried said “what’s happening now is economically threatening” and called on the CBN to “please step in and save millions of Nigerians to access these loans for agricultural production.”
Many farmers waiting for NIRSAL disbursement through their social media handle expressed sadness over the suspension of the loan facility as it threatened to ground their dreams for expansion.
Reacting to the development in a chat with our Agric Editor, the leadership of the All Farmer Association of Nigeria, headed by Architect Kabiru Ibrahim, said though the CBN blames NIRSAL in the non-performance of the ABP, it should do the needful in fishing out those responsible.
It should continue to provide qualified farmers the much-needed support.
“We urge the CBN to do due diligence in prequalifying farmers who participate in the programme because several cases of briefcase farmers who pose as real farmers abound.
These collude with some NIRSAL officials to defraud the programme.
“Timely repayment which is not forthcoming in the ABP is largely due to this fraud.
Anyone who gives bribe to take a loan with an interest component has no desire to repay it.
“Our initial understanding of the role of NIRSAL was to primarily incentivize commercial banks to embrace lending for agricultural production but certainly not to prequalify prospective loan seeking companies.
This is how corruption took over and the farmers are now the worse for it.
“We call on the CBN to reverse its decision on the disbursement of the ABP support to farmers,” he said.
Similarly, Dr Femi Oke, AFAN chairman, South-west Zone, said the suspension of the NIRSAL loans would greatly impact food production in the country.
Oke, speaking to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), in Lagos, urged the CBN to investigate the allegations against NIRSAL without undermining the various efforts of farmers toward achieving food security and self-sufficiency.
He called on the CBN to resolve the issues surrounding the suspension of the NIRSAL loans to farmers, so as to avert impending food crisis.
The AFAN official said many farmers were disappointed by the sudden suspension of the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP) and NIRSAL loans, as they provided a lot of support to smallholder farmers.
The CBN recently suspended all loans disbursed by NIRSAL, following widespread allegations of corruption by its officials, NAN also reported.
The CBN’s suspension of further disbursement of loans by NIRSAL to farmers was contained in correspondence of March 10, following the Feb. 24 meeting where the decision to pause further loan disbursements was reached.
The memo said the decision would only be reversed after all outstanding loans disbursed to farmers through NIRSAL were paid.
According to Oke, “when we heard about the suspension of NIRSAL loans, we knew immediately that this is not good for the farmers and the sector.
“From what we heard, the suspension is based upon the ABP.
“We want CBN to lay more emphasis on how it will go about it because some of the farmers have done their interview on NIRSAL loans, while others are awaiting disbursement of the funds.
“What will be their fate now?
This is not good and we implore government to look into the issue and address it,” he said.
Oke urged the federal government to intervene, in order not to jeopardise the efforts of farmers that have already invested in their farms, and those already waiting for the loans to enable them to prepare for the planting season.
“Something needs to be done immediately in order not to jeopardise the effort of the farmers that are still ready to go back to the farm.
“Very many farmers, specifically in the South-West, are waiting for the loan and they expect that by now it should have been disbursed.
“Very few of our members have been able to access the loan, a very large number have not even gotten access to the interview.
“I have also not done the interview myself.
I am still waiting to be selected.
Farmers are not happy about the suspension of the loan,” he stressed.
The AFAN chairman said even the NIRSAL selection process had been slow due to the COVID-19 pandemic, such that “only about 10 per cent of our farmers have benefited from the loan.
“We want the federal government to clarify if the suspension is on the CBN Anchor Borrowers Programme alone and on the Microfinance bank through NIRSAL,” he said.
There is no immediate reaction from the management of NIRSAL over the suspension of the loans as an official, who craved anonymity, said only the CBN can talk on the matter and it has spoken.
Sources at the apex bank said the suspension was to ensure efficiency in the system and assured farmers of the bank’s commitment to guarantee food security.

Gunmen break into Italian residence of ex-Manchester star
Armed men in the early hours of Friday held Chris Smalling, a footballer, and his family at gunpoint in their home in Italy.
According to reports, the footballer was inside the house with his model wife and two-year-old son when three masked men barged in and forced him to open the family’s safe.
Smalling was forced to hand over his Rolex watch, and other valuables from the safe
The police received a call from Smalling’s wife , Sam, around 5am,and officers arrived at the family’s villa , located 25miles south of Rome.
The police are still investigating the incident and Roma has offered to support the player.
He lives with his wife Sam, a glamour model from Manchester.
The couple have been married since June 2017 and welcomed their first son, Leo, just before they moved to Italian capital
The defender has been playing in Rome since summer in 2019.

Woman stabs 14-year-old boy to death in Bayelsa
A middle-aged woman, said to be mentally deranged has stabbed to death a 14-year-old boy in Yenagoa, Bayelsa state capital.
The victim, identified as Joseph Thomas, was stabbed along Genesis street, off Okaka road of the city at about 7.30am on Tuesday morning.
The incident threw the neighbours into shock which later degenerated into mob action against the suspected woman and nearly beat her to death.
It was gathered that the quick arrival of the Patrol team of the Bayelsa State Police Command rescued the woman from the angry mob who wanted to retaliate the boy’s death.
Some residents of the community told Daily Trust that the accused woman is believed to be deranged and had attempted to stab another boy few meters away from where she killed the 14-year boy.
Daily Trust leant that the woman had stabbed another boy in the arm along mountain of fire road, Okaka before proceeding to kill her victim.
Suspect gospel preacher
One of the residents of the Genesis streets identified as Panebi said the woman, who is an indigene of Enugu State, is known to preach the gospel of Christ in the early hours of the morning along the Okaka road.
He said: “But on this particular day, she was usually carrying a Bible and started displaying strange behaviors by displaying a dagger.
She always chased everyone that come across her.
Until she gets to the victim’s house and broke down the door.
“She dragged the boy to the middle of the road and stabbed him three times.
Angry youths on the street started retaliating by attacking her with stones and planks until she fell down.
And police came to her rescue and took her away.”
The grandmother of the deceased, Madam Modlyn, who narrated the incident said her grandson was in the house when he was accosted and allegedly killed him.
She said: “I went to buy something.
I was at the place when someone told me that a mad woman is looking for me and wanted to kill me.
“I wondered why a mad woman would be looking for me.
I ran into my neighbor’s house to seek refuge and avoid the woman.
While at the neighbor’s house, I heard noise from neighbours that she had stabbed my grandson to death.”
Also speaking, a neighbour to the deceased who preferred anonymity said she was preparing her children for school when the incident occurred.
Rights group doubts plead of insanity
The President of the Do Foundation, a group involved in the civil advocacy against domestic violence and violence against children in the state, Barr.
Dise Sheilla Ogbise, expressed anger against the killing of the 14-year old.
She said: “We are interested in this case and it must be further investigated.
A woman just lost her son and relations to the accused woman who had already raised the defence of insanity.
We are not convinced that she is insane.
“No Doctor has confirmed it and there is no evidence backing the claim of insanity.
This is a clear case of murder except proven otherwise.
Let the Bayelsa Police thoroughly investigate the matter”
The spokesman of the Bayelsa State Police Command, SP Asinim Butswat, who confirmed the development, said the police authorities have already taken the accused woman to its custody.

Hunger, poverty and the challenge of innovative food storage
By Patricia Pessu
If you visit many offices across Nigeria at lunchtime during the months of May, June, July and August, chances are high that you will find a good number of workers munching away at “mouth organs”.
Yes, with corn in season, one of the most popular delicacies at this time is the combination of roasted corn (popularly code-named as “mouth organ”) and the African pear.
Coconut is an occasional close substitute for pear and this writer has it on good authority that many people find the coconut and “mouth-organ” combination, just as delicious too.
Outside of those months when both corn and pear are in season, this delicious combination is unavailable.
Interestingly, during those harvest months, enough corn and pear to sustain the country for a substantial period, perhaps even an entire year, may have been harvested.
But with inadequate knowledge and utilisation of modern and cost-effective storage and preservation methods, tonnes of maize and pear end up wasted every year.
The same applies to many other agricultural commodities in Nigeria.
At harvest periods, there is often a surplus, but in the absence of proper storage, a huge proportion of these harvests eventually goes to waste.
These perennial losses pose a huge threat to the economic wellbeing of farmers, the majority of whom operate at the subsistence level.
The challenge, which this problem of poor storage and preservation of food poses to our country, becomes even more haunting when one considers the difficulties with which we are likely to be confronted in the post-COVID era.
It is, therefore, imperative that beyond improving the volumes of our agricultural output, we look critically at how to empower farmers across the country to better manage their harvests.
This will translate to immense economic value not only to the farmers themselves whose livelihoods will be enhanced, but also to the country as a whole, as more food will become more widely available and for extended periods, for consumption and export.
Instructively, a number of research organisations and universities have over the years introduced different solutions to the problem of post-harvest losses.
The innovations that have been developed, being home-grown, are unique because they reflect the realities of our local environment.
Not only are they relatively cheap, as they are also often technically uncomplicated, but farmers can adopt them readily.
In the area of fish farming for instance, there is an innovation known as the “iced-fish box” with which harvested fish may be stored in order to remain fresh on transportation to the market from the farm or ahead of processing and storage.
In addition, specialised smoking kilns have been developed to replace the labour-intensive, yet inefficient and unhealthy traditional fish smoking methods.
Output from these kilns is good enough for export and is several multiples of what is ordinarily obtainable by traditional fish-smoking methods.
Nigerian researchers have also produced composite packaging material that can be used for packaging such smoked fish or even smoked meat as the case may be, preserving the end-product and boosting its commercial appeal.
Whether it is beans, corn or rice that become discoloured, mouldy, smelly or infested with weevils, grains pose problems of storage for farmers, often leading to considerable financial losses.
In the past, grains exported from Nigeria have also faced rejection because of the unacceptable levels of residual pesticides they contain.
Local researchers have been active in the area of grain preservation, churning out a handful of innovative solutions over the years.
For instance, there are solar dryers that have been developed for different products.
Given the abundance of sunshine in our country and the simplicity of construction of these dryers, they are relatively affordable by the average farmer.
Construction can also be easily replicated in local settings.
Essentially, these solar dryers work to enhance the efficiency of drying of agricultural produce.
They do this by concentrating the rays of the sun on a particular surface, enhancing drying efficiency over the traditional method of spreading grains, cassava and plantain peelings and others, indiscriminately under the sun.
Specially constructed steel drums which when properly shut become airtight (hermetic) and with which farmers can store grains over several months have also been developed by local researchers.
There are specialised storage silos as well, which can help store and preserve grains over many months.
There is in fact, a particular twin silo, which can jointly accommodate up to 100 tonnes of grains at a time.
Local researchers have also developed bio-pesticides as an alternative to chemical pesticides.
Commonly available chemical pesticides though effective against pests are often harmful to man and the environment, too.
Bio-pesticides, on the other hand, are much safer and constitute no environmental hazard.
One of such pesticides (NSPRIDUST), an innovation by the Nigerian Stored Products Research Institute, is made from diatomaceous earth, a powdery form of a naturally occurring rock in Nigeria.
Bio-pesticides will help to make Nigerian grains potentially more acceptable in the export market.
Fruits and vegetables are not left out of the problem of poor preservation and storage in Nigeria.
While we import apples, pears, strawberries and other fruits round-the-clock, there is not much that can be said about Nigeria’s fruit exports.
Again, Nigeria’s researchers have also over time, heralded different solutions to this problem.
There is the specially constructed fruit and vegetable shed for instance, made of simple and locally available raw materials, and which helps farmers to preserve fruits and vegetables for longer.
Then, there is the fruit dryer, which by drying certain fruits helps to preserve them.
Local researchers are working fervently on fruit and vegetable conservation using the principle of “evaporative cooling”.
Evaporative cooling is the cooling that results when water evaporates from a surface.
Incidentally, fruit and vegetable preservation using evaporative cooling is not new, having been practised for decades in traditional settings in Nigeria.
Researchers are now keen to find new ways to enhance the efficiency and efficacy of traditional evaporative cooling systems in order to preserve the shelf life of fruits and vegetables over a longer duration.
For tubers such as yams and potatoes, local researchers have long come up with such products as “ventilated yam barns” for the storage of yam tubers, “diffused-light store” for the storage of potatoes, “cassava root warehouse” for the storage of cassava roots among many others.
There is no doubt that widespread adoption of these technologies by farmers across the country will help to considerably stem the tide of post-harvest losses in Nigeria.
This will, one must repeat, translate to significant economic value not only for the farmers and the wider agricultural value chain but for the entire country as well.
Getting the agricultural value chain to increasingly adopt these innovations will entail patient and systematic engagement.
Farmers’ cooperatives and associations will be a good medium with which to reach farmers across the country with information and education.
So, is the media and media institutions.
Research institutes and faculties of agriculture in our various universities, being vital hotbeds of innovation, must work more collaboratively in order to jointly share and popularise innovations that are emanating therefrom.
Agricultural chambers of commerce are a potential source of popularising these innovations especially among policymakers and influencers and should also be engaged.
The increasing penetration of smartphones across the country also presents an opportunity with which to reach millions of farmers with information and education.
-Dr.
Pessu is the Executive Director of Nigerian Stored Products Research Institute, Ilorin

Joblessness forced us into crime – Suspects
A ten-man armed robbery gang arrested for allegedly attacking people in traffic in Lagos have all confessed that they went into crime because of their state of joblessness.
Some of the suspects were arrested along rail-line at Ikeja while others were nabbed from their hideouts based on the confessional statement made by the suspects.
It was learnt that their arrest is a sequel to resolve by the state police command to tackle criminality in the metropolis.
The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, had deployed more men to tackle the increasing cases of traffic robbery in the state.
The Commissioner has rejigged the command’s strategies to suppress, raid and arrest hoodlums at the identified areas/hideouts across the state.
One of the suspects, Olamide Johnson, 22, told police interrogators at the command headquarters, Ikeja, that he and members of the gang went into robbery because of their joblessness.
“We don’t want to wait to die of hunger that was why we embarked on the easy way out, which is robbery.
We never knew that it is not so easy like we thought” he said.
Lagos State Police Spokesman, Muyiwa Adejobi, who spoke on the arrest, said the command regularly arrested traffic robbers for allegedly being involved in acts of terror.
Adejobi said during most of the attacks, the suspects had allegedly dispossessed innocent people of their belongings in the state.
“In furtherance of the command’s anti-crime measures, the police operatives attached to the Strike Team of the Command, on May 1, 2021, at 2 pm, arrested 11 suspected cultists and traffic robbers who were attacking and dispossessing innocent people of their belongings at Railway Crossing, Ikeja, along, Ikeja-Lagos.
“The operatives who responded to a distress call from one of the victims (name withheld), raced to the area and arrested some of the suspects in action while others were arrested at their hideouts.
“They have confessed to the crime.
The suspects also revealed that they attack their targets with iron rods, guns, cutlasses and charms during operation.
“In the course of the police investigation, the suspects identified one of their receivers as Idris Adamu, 42.
He was immediately arrested at Alade Market, Lagos State.
“A gold necklace of one of the victims and many other suspected stolen items like phones, necklaces, watches etc.
, were recovered from him,” he said.
He said police operatives were presently interrogating the suspects in order to extract more information on their mode of operations, membership and accomplices so as to apprehend other members of the gang and those who conspired with them in committing the dastardly act in the area and across the state.
“The suspects are Sadiq Masaki, 22, Oladimeji Olatunbosun, 24, Adam Hassan, 21, Tunde Afolayan, 24, Michael Ademola, 22, Olamide Johnson, 20, Abiodun Opeyemi, 22, Oluseyi Agbaje, 21, Daniel Ayomide, 20 and Adebayo Tobi, 21.
“The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered that the Strike Team should profile the suspects and go after their gang members and conspirators as the command will not spare anyone who engages in any act of criminality, no matter its magnitude,” he said.
Adejobi further said that the police boss also directed that the Commander RRS, the Commander Task force and other tactical commanders should sectorise the state for easy operation and get rid of traffic robbers and other criminals in order to accord perfect and excellent service delivery as well as effective security to all and sundry in Lagos State.

Man United-Liverpool game rearranged for 13 May
Manchester United’s postponed home Premier League match against Liverpool has been rearranged for 13 May, the league said on Wednesday.
The match was called off on Sunday after United fans protesting against the club’s American owners, the Glazer family, stormed into the stadium which was closed to spectators due to Covid-19 restrictions.
The rescheduling of the game means United must play two games in the space of two days as their home game against Leicester City has been moved forward a day to 11 May.
Liverpool’s trip to West Bromwich Albion will take place on 16 May as planned.

Leicester blow Champions League chance as Kane signs off with Golden Boot
Leicester blew the chance to qualify for the Champions League for just the second time in the club’s history as the Foxes lost 4-2 to Tottenham on Sunday.
Jamie Vardy twice put Brendan Rodgers’s men ahead from the penalty spot.
But Harry Kane, on what could be his final appearance for Spurs, a Kasper Schmeichel own goal and a late double from Gareth Bale secured seventh place in the Premier League for Tottenham and a place in next season’s Europa Conference League.
Leicester spent more days in the Premier League top four than any other club this season, but for the second consecutive year they fell away in the final weeks of the campaign to miss out on the riches and prestige of Champions League football.
Chelsea’s 2-1 defeat at Aston Villa opened the door for the FA Cup winners to take advantage and move into fourth.
For much of a dramatic afternoon, it looked like Leicester would do just that as Vardy slotted home his first penalty on 18 minutes.
Kane is keen to move on from his boyhood club after Tottenham also missed out on the Champions League for a second straight year.
But the England captain secured the consolation prize of winning the Golden Boot as he slammed home his 23rd Premier League goal of the campaign four minutes before half-time.
Vardy was spot on again seven minutes into the second-half to put Leicester back in pole position to round off a fine season after lifting the FA Cup for the first time in their history last weekend.
Schmeichel was one of the heroes at Wembley eight days ago, but the Dane’s mistake cost his side dear with a place in the Champions League worth at least £60 million.
The Leicester captain flapped at a corner to punch the ball into his own net 14 minutes from time.
With the home side then chasing a winner, Bale struck twice in the final 10 minutes to also sign off his loan spell from Real Madrid on a high.
Leicester were furious
Kane was not penalised for handball before he teed up the Welshman to slot into an unguarded goal.
Bale then tapped home his 16th goal of the season after his initial effort came off the post deep into stoppage time.
(AFP)

West Ham top-four hopes dented by loss to Everton
West Ham United blew their chance to apply real pressure in the race for a Premier League top-four finish as they slumped to a 1-0 home defeat by an Everton side who maintained their European qualification hopes on Sunday.
Dominic Calvert-Lewin’s 24th-minute goal proved decisive against a West Ham side who huffed and puffed but never really hit their stride on a crucial afternoon.
The closest West Ham came to an equaliser was when Vladimir Coufal’s shot hit the post and Jarrod Bowen could not bundle in the rebound from point-blank range.

Osinbajo has not declared interest in presidential race, says spokesman
Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo has described the speculations that he will contest the 2023 presidential election as a distraction.
There have been unconfirmed reports that Osinbajo is eyeing the highest office in the land.
In a statement which Laolu Akande, his spokesman, issued on his behalf on Monday, the vice-president said it is not true that he has declared interest in the race.
“The attention of the Office of the Vice President has been drawn to a website:
supportosinbajo.ng that is calling on Nigerians to join a volunteer group mobilizing support for Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, ahead of the 2023 presidential election.
“Details of this website and the solicitation of the group are currently trending on WhatsApp with a suggestion that Prof. Osinbajo has “quietly” declared interest in the 2023 election.
“The Office of the Vice President is not in any way connected to this website or the group behind it and considers such an enterprise an unnecessary distraction.
Prof. Osinbajo has not declared any interest whatsoever in the 2023 election, but he is rather focused on working in his capacity as Vice President in the current administration to address all the compelling issues in the country and concerns of Nigerians, including finding effective and lasting solutions to the security challenges.
“Therefore, we ask that people desist from such unhelpful permutations while we all deal together with the challenges confronting us as Nigerians, and resolve them for the benefit of our people, peace and prosperity in the land,” the statement read.

NFF congratulates Ndidi, Iheanacho on FA Cup win with Leicester City
President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF)
Mr Amaju Melvin Pinnick, has sent a message of congratulations to Super Eagles’ midfielder Wilfred Ndidi and forward Kelechi Iheanacho on the duo’s triumph with Leicester City over much-fancied Chelsea FC in Saturday’s
FA Cup final in England.
Both players featured in the encounter at Wembley and at the end celebrated enthusiastically with Nigeria’s flag as they joined a list of only seven other Nigerian players to have lifted England’s most glamorous diadem.
“I am very happy for both Ndidi and Iheanacho.
They worked very hard for Leicester City throughout the campaign and themselves and the Club deserve the honour.
“I believe this triumph will serve as a major psychological boost for the two players ahead of our friendly games this summer and FIFA World Cup qualifiers starting in September.
“I am also very happy seeing the two players celebrating with the Nigerian flag at the end of it all.
That was awesome.”
Ndidi and Iheanacho became only the second pair of Nigerians to have celebrated The FA Cup win in England, after Nwankwo Kanu and John Utaka triumphed with Portsmouth against Cardiff in 2008.
Before then, Daniel Amokachi had won with Everton in 1995; Celestine Babayaro with Chelsea in 2000; Kanu with Arsenal in 2002 and 2003 and John Mikel Obi with Chelsea in 2007.
After the Kanu/Utaka feat in 2008, John Mikel Obi won again with Chelsea in 2009, 2010 and 2012; Alex Iwobi won with Arsenal in 2017 and; Victor Moses won with Chelsea in 2018.

Djokovic warms up for Roland Garros with Belgrade title
Novak Djokovic completed a successful warm-up for Roland Garros when he beat Slovakian Alex Molcan 6-4, 6-3, on Saturday in the final of the ATP clay tournament in Belgrade.
This was the second event in the city in just over a month but where the Serbia Open in April was played in an empty stadium, fans were allowed for this tournament.
“It’s been a while since I last played here in front of a crowd,” said Djokovic, a Belgrade native who lost in the semifinal in the Serbia Open, a tournament he last won in 2011.

Ending Nigeria’s herder-farmer crisis: The Livestock Reform Plan
Nigeria’s federal and state governments are struggling to implement a National Livestock Transformation Plan that seeks to curb the movement of cattle across the country and reduce deadly herder-farmer conflict.
While the Plan has earned the endorsement of many state governments, it faces significant challenges.
Deficient political leadership, popular misperceptions about its purpose, budgetary constraints aggravated by the COVID-19 pandemic, a lack of personnel with the expertise to carry it out and widespread insecurity, are all hindering progress.
If the Plan fails as previous initiatives to modernise livestock management did, herder-farmer violence could escalate.
Approved by the National Economic Council in January 2019, the Plan represents the most comprehensive effort to overhaul Nigeria’s inefficient and grossly underperforming livestock system.
At the core is a strategy to curtail migratory or open grazing, and thus, lower the risk of conflict between herders and farmers.
It is animated by the hope that over a period of 10 years, predominantly nomadic pastoralists will be persuaded to move their cattle into ranches and public grazing reserves, where breeding farms and other mechanised livestock management practices are to bolster the sector’s productivity.
By the end of 2028, authorities aim to have at least 119 ranches operating in all participating states, creating over two million jobs in the livestock production, processing and marketing chains.
President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration came up with the Plan following a wave of violence between herders and farmers, particularly a surge in related violence afflicting rural dwellers in 2018.
The federal government, which has committed to funding 80 per cent of the transformation proposals submitted by participating states, has taken preliminary steps toward putting the Plan into practice, including providing technical support to help states prepare for implementation, such as help with field surveys and site mapping.
Several states have reactivated earlier demarcated grazing reserves, opened offices and set up steering committees to administer the Plan.
Authorities have also held workshops and done other works to explain the benefits of livestock reform to a larger audience.
But two years into the 10-year plan, the first new ranch is yet to be built, and the obstacles are many.
Opposition, partly among herders, predominantly from the Fulani ethnic group but also among farmers who resent the Plan’s benefits to pastoralists, hinders reform efforts.
Distrust is widespread in the Middle Belt, which has been the scene of violent disputes over land between herders and farmers, notwithstanding peacemaking and military efforts that since 2018 have reduced the bloodshed.
Federal and state budgets are pinched, partly due to the pandemic’s economic fallout, and the country lacks sufficient technical expertise for managing ranches and grazing reserves.
In many states, especially in the North-West, the proliferation of criminal gangs and other armed groups is cutting off access to grazing reserves and scaring away potential investors.
Unless addressed, these and other problems could delay or even scuttle the Plan, leaving the country vulnerable to an escalation of herder-farmer conflict, which could degenerate into wider ethnic, regional and religious violence.
Tackling these challenges requires a concerted effort by federal and state authorities, with help from donors and investors.
First, Abuja and supportive state governments should provide stronger political leadership and improve public communication to dispel misgivings and misperceptions about the Plan.
These are especially prevalent among pastoralists, who will be asked to change a centuries-old nomadic lifestyle, and who legitimately doubt the Plan’s promises about available pasture.
But many farmers are fearful too, that they may lose land to livestock producers.
Many in the Middle Belt and southern states remain deeply suspicious of the Plan’s long-term goals, which they see as creating privileges for herders, and more broadly, the Fulani.
With Abuja and other partners’ support, state governments must build expertise and technical capacity, especially for managing ranches and grazing reserves, dairy production and meat processing.
Federal and state governments should also up budgetary commitments, hasten the release of funds and provide financial transparency to ensure accountability, working with donors and investors as necessary.
Addressing rural insecurity, curbing impunity and rehabilitating communities adversely affected by earlier violence in participating states are also vital.
Plus, authorities will need to consider climate change’s likely impact and reach a decision about how the transhumant herders who cross into Nigeria seasonally should or should not benefit from the Plan.
While some of these steps will take time, the Plan’s proponents should focus on delivering concrete, visible results on a relatively short-term basis.
Less than two years from now, the country will hold general elections.
If the Plan is to survive the change of government that will follow, politicians may need to be able to produce clear proof of its benefits (Having served two terms, President Buhari and many state governors are ineligible to compete, meaning that change is certain.)
Ideally, by the time campaigning heats up in late 2022, the Plan’s backers should be able to point to at least a handful of newly constructed ranches or rehabilitated reserves, strong donor and investor commitments, and the first of a cadre of newly trained livestock management professionals.
None of this will be easy, but the Plan is worth the effort.
While far from perfect, it offers an important chance to reform Nigeria’s livestock system with a strategy that addresses the needs of both herders and small-scale farmers.
About 70 per cent of Nigeria’s workforce earns an income through agriculture.
Modernising the livestock sector could boost the country’s prosperity overall at the same time that it takes a big step toward resolving one of Nigeria’s most dangerous conflicts.
With the clock ticking down to the 2023 elections, federal and state authorities will need to move quickly to make a visible mark, lest the work they have done to create this moment of opportunity be lost.
This piece is an executive summary of a report on the National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP) and how to hasten its implementation, published by the International Crisis Group.

Gbaja: 1999 Constitution is a product of hurried national consensus
The Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has said the recent move to amend the 1999 Constitution ismnecessary to address its shortcomings.
Gbajabiamila was quoted to have said this in his address at the ongoing zonal public hearing on constitution review in Lagos State.
He said the 1999 Constitution was a product of a hurried national consensus taken to return the country to democracy.
“Our constitution falls short of this standard because the 1999 Constitution is the product of a hurried national compromise that we entered into two decades ago in order to ensure that the military returned to the barracks and that we returned to democratic government,” he said.
While noting that it was not the first time the task was taken, he said the present one by the 9th assembly might be the most important constitutional amendment process in the nation’s recent history because the decisions that would be taken will have far-reaching consequences for the future of Nigeria.
“A nation’s constitution is the foundation of its existence.
It is supposed to set the terms of our nationhood and define who we are in a manner that reflects both our common truths and highest aspirations.
“It was always the intention that we will one day as one people and one nation, return to amend this document so that it gives voice to the yearnings of the Nigerian people and sets out in clear details how we intend to achieve the shared ambitions of our nationhood.
“Providence has cast upon the 9th National Assembly the responsibility to write such a constitution for the Nigerian people,” he said.

2023: Offa backs Kwara gov for second term
Indigenes of Offa LGA of Kwara State on Thursday threw their weight behind the second term bid of Governor Abdulrahman AbdulRazaq.
This is coming a week after the Olofa of Offa, Oba Mufutau Gbadamosi Esuwoye II, publicly endorsed the governor and months after a similar one by some stakeholders in Kaiama, Kwara North.
According to the indigenes who expressed full support for the monarch’s action, the new endorsement was hinged on what they described as the superlative performance of AbdulRazaq in the last two years.
Describing Abdulrazaq as a goal getter, the people said the difference in the development in the state is very clear, compared with what obtained in the past.
Speaking at a town hall meeting, the APC chairman in Offa, Abdullateef Afolayan, said, “come 2023, there
’s no vacancy in Kwara government house as we’re determined as a people to return Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq for a second term in office”.
The meeting had critical stakeholders in the affairs of Offa, including representatives of Olofa, the Chief Imam of Offa, Christian Association of Nigeria
(CAN) and Muslim leaders, youths as well as business community in attendance.
Afolayan’s declaration was greeted with ecstasy by the Deputy Governor, Kayode Alabi, Special Advisers on Political, Political Communication and Strategy, Gidado Alakawa, Bashir Adigun and Sa’adu Salau, respectively, who graced the event.
The representative of Olofa, the Asalofa of Offa, Alhaji Isiaka Shittu, said ongoing development efforts in the state by the governor, especially in Offa town should be commended, adding that renovation of the Offa General Hospital, rehabilitation of Offa roads and Offa water works are some of the areas where the governor has impacted on the town.
The women, represented by the market women leader, Alhaja Idiat Yesufu, said the people know the level of development the present administration has achieved since assuming office.
She commended the governor for financial empowerment and support to traders in the state.
She said Offa women supported the endorsement of the governor by the Olofa, “because we know how the present administration met Kwara and how it is today.”

5 years after: Why Nigeria still can’t export beans to Europe
Nigeria’s hope of importing dry cowpea (beans) to the European Union countries has again been dashed this year.
This is as a result of the extension of an earlier ban on the country’s dry beans by the European Union (EU) subsisting till 2022.
The EU food safety authority had in 2015 banned Nigerian beans because it contained between 0.3mg per kg and 4.6mg per kg of Dichlorvos, a pesticide, when the maximum acceptable residue limit is 0.01 mg per kg.
Dichlorvos is considered to be highly toxic and can cause difficulty in breathing, diarrhoea, vomiting, convulsions and dizziness among others.
Experts say like many organophosphate (OP) insecticides, it also inhibits the enzyme cholinesterase, which results in disruption to the nervous and muscular systems.
Some experts also claimed that some farmers and middlemen use Sniper, another deadly chemical, to preserve their beans.
An independent investigation conducted by this paper last year showed that most of the beans in the country are preserved with chemicals that are dangerous to human health.
A food scientist, Idowu Amusa, listed the consequences of consuming foods preserved with Sniper and other harmful chemicals to include gastro-intestinal health issues, brain and other internal tissue damage, blood poisoning, food poisoning and could also lead to death.
The EU had in 2018 extended the ban on importation of dry beans from Nigeria until June 2019 owing to the continuous presence of the pesticide.
The Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service (NAQS), the country’s produce regulator, had earlier assured farmers and other stakeholders that the country was working hard to ensure the ban is lifted in 2021.
However, a recent document from the EU has announced an extension of the ban, claiming that Nigeria failed to implement the union’s food safety action plan submitted in 2018.
With the extension, beans produced in Nigeria will still not be allowed into any member country of the European Union.
This has been the situation for the past five years.
How it started
In 2015, a consignment of Nigerian beans was rejected under the EU export regulations.
An official of the NAQS told our Agric Editor that upon arrival at Tin Can Island, the NAQS team went to inspect the consignment and it was discovered that some of the containers were already powdery and the rejection was on the premise of chemical residue.
“We took our own analysis from there and discovered that aside from the pesticide residue, there was also the presence of pests, which occasioned the powder form of the beans.”
He said the agency has been carrying out aggressive campaigns to explain how and the need for farmers, as well as middlemen to preserve their beans with the acceptable chemical level.
The official, who did not want his name in print, said aside from the export problem, consuming such highly preserved beans is dangerous to human and animal health.
Nigeria is losing billions – Expert
Mr. Segun Ayeni, an agric economist, yesterday, told Daily Trust that Nigeria is losing billions of naira to the continued ban on the country’s beans since 2015 by the EU.
He said farmers, traders as well as the government could no longer make much money from the beans value chain because of the ban.
“All the traders in between, the warehouse people, the transporters and us, who are involved in the inspection and certification, that aspect has been broken down because they cannot generate any revenue along the value chain anymore,’’ he said.
Reactions
The National President of the All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), Architect Kabiru Ibrahim, while reacting to the ban by the EU, said it may not be unconnected with the country’s nonconformity with the Global Good Agricultural Practices protocol.
“In the production, we need to deploy good agricultural practices and in the preservation, we should not use large volumes of chemicals that will provide residual contents unacceptable for wholesome foods in Europe.
“A general ban by the EU is not very well thought out because there are some farmers already complying with GAP standards.’’
He added: “We are working with some farmers to ensure compliance with GAP.
As the National President of AFAN, I am the chairman of the National Technical Working Group on Global GAP in Nigeria inaugurated in 2017 by then minister of Agriculture and Rural Development.’’
He said the various “exporters, agribusiness groups, Ministry of Trade and Investment, SON, NAFDAC and Quarantine Department have to work together and act in unison to make our produce acceptable globally.”
Mr. Idowu Amusa, a food scientist, advised that farmers should grow organic foods only and if they must use pesticides on their farms, they should use only recommended pesticides brands and dosage.
“Allow enough time between application of pesticides and use of the food produce and where possible, the food product should be rightly labelled with relevant information on cultivation to consumers,’’ he said.

Tuchel eyes first Chelsea trophy as Leicester chase FA Cup history
Thomas Tuchel plans to ruin Leicester’s bid to make history, as the Chelsea manager eyes the first trophy of his reign in Saturday’s
FA Cup final at Wembley.
Tuchel has enjoyed a superb run since replacing the sacked Frank Lampard in January.
The German has led Chelsea to the FA Cup and Champions League finals, while taking them back into the Premier League’s top four.
Winning his maiden silverware in English football would be further evidence of Tuchel’s impact.
But Leicester, two points above Chelsea in the Premier League, will pose a significant threat to Tuchel’s ambitions under the astute guidance of boss Brendan Rodgers.
The Foxes are aiming to win the FA Cup for the first time in their first final appearance since 1969.
No club have appeared in more FA Cup finals without lifting the trophy than Leicester, who have lost four times in the showpiece match.
In contrast, Chelsea have won the FA Cup eight times, with their last victory coming against Manchester United in 2018.
The Blues, beaten in last year’s final against Arsenal, will be making their fourth appearance in the competition’s denouement in the last five years.
Having already beaten managerial luminaries Pep Guardiola, Jurgen Klopp, Jose Mourinho, Diego Simeone, Zinedine Zidane and Carlo Ancelotti since arriving at Chelsea, Tuchel will pit his wits against Rodgers for the first time as Blues boss.
After a frustrating end to his spell at Paris Saint-Germain – where he won the French title and reached last season’s
Champions League final before being forced out following a power struggle with sporting director Leonardo – Tuchel has quickly erased any doubts about his suitability for Chelsea.

New technologies, researches that may lessen your farming drudgery
For many farmers in Nigeria, the absence of improved technologies to make farming easy and smooth, particularly for the younger generation, has been very challenging.
Despite having 16 agricultural research institutions and four conventional universities of agriculture in the country, research and development has been on the slow pace.
Recently, Daily Trust spoke with Professor Ishiyaku Mohammed, the executive director of the Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR), Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria and he
explained some of the newest researches and technologies the institute developed for farmers.
Recent varieties released 
“In the most recent situation, about 28 different varieties of sorghum were released.
About the same number was released for groundnut varieties.
The institute also released up to 20 varieties of cowpea and 66 different maize varieties, then 13 different varieties of cotton.
“They have very important economic attributes that increase the income of farmers and provide a different product for utilisation, either as food, fiber, or for making textile products in the case of cotton, or even for providing oil in the case of groundnut and cotton.
“The IAR has also generally awoken the conscience of farmers to the existence of modern agricultural technologies.
Our scientists have, over the years, fabricated machines and tools towards reducing drudgery.
For example, there are hand held planters and tractors.
And  we are in the process of perfecting roll weeders  because people have been complaining that farmers still use hand held hoes for weeding.
So we have responded by introducing the development of mechanical weeders.
We have threshers for maize, beans, sorghum and groundnut.
“Dryers are important when you produce crops when there’s still rainfall, so you need to find a place where you would at least dry them.
Drying is also useful in storing products like tomatoes,’’ he stated.
Something new on ginger seed
He continued, “The IAR also delved into an emerging area of science called biotechnology.
Our scientists are developing ways of rapidly propagating crops.
For example, right now, we have an order to micro-propagate ginger.
Production of ginger is determined by how much planting material you have, and the planting material is very expensive, so our scientists have developed ways that inside a bottle you can develop from 1 to 2 inches piece of ginger.
You can produce more than 200 plantlets that can be grown in the field.
Right now, we are receiving orders from some farmers who are looking for this.
We do it for sugarcane also.
This technique helps in propagating disease- free crops, sometimes planting materials can be infected by disease.
The more you plant, the more the disease is propagated into others.
But these techniques try to purify the materials to be disease-free.
So it is called tissue cultural techniques, where the crop is planted inside a bottle and made to proliferate.
Each plantlet can now give rise to several plantlets etc.
New technology for bio-fertiliser, irrigation
“Technologies as we develop them go through two stages.
The first stage is scientific.
Here, scientists get convinced that these techniques have become a technology or a tool of solving a problem, then it will go to the farmers to test themselves.
Then based on the opinion of the farmers, it can be propagated further.
“So in the area of the crop varieties I have counted to you in the last few years, we have released varieties of cowpea that is insect-resistant.
It is called SAMPEA20T for maize; the same year we released six different varieties of maize with yield potentials of 6-8 tonne per hectare and then in 2020.
Three varieties of improved sorghum (sweet sorghum) were released, together with an additional six varieties of maize.
“So in the recent times, this is what we have released.
We are about releasing a technology for bio-fertiliser, which is a capsule of some materials that contain some useful microorganisms that can assist in fixing nitrogen, which will benefit the plant in its growth and development as if it had been added with fertiliser.
“We have developed improved techniques for irrigation so that it will reduce wastage of water by farmers,’’ he added.

The Guild at 60, inspiring the living, honouring the dead
By Lanre Idowu 
Sixty years ago, on Saturday, May 20, 1961, the Nigerian Guild of Editors was born, a child of great hope at the old National Press Club located then at Abibu Oki in the heart of Lagos.
It was named the Guild of Newspaper Editors of Nigeria, designed to serve as an exclusive club of professional news managers where editors as the ultimate gatekeepers on media content could come together seasonally to interrogate issues of professional media practice unfettered by labour matters.
The editors had been effectively sidelined from the Nigeria Union of Journalists, which predated the Guild by six years, on account that as management staff, they could not be trusted to effectively represent the interests of the rank and file journalists.
So in response to the reverse discrimination of the NUJ, the need to instill professional guidance, and protect their interests in light of the unfolding socio-political developments in the early days of independent Nigeria, the Guild emerged to occupy the strategic middle ground of professional managers between owners and the general rank of journalists.
Lateef Jakande (1929-2021) of the Nigerian Tribune was its first founding president.
His cabinet had the likes of Babatunde Jose (1925-2008) of the Daily Times as the vice president, Abiodun Aloba (1921-2001) of the Morning Post as the secretary, and Nelson Ottah of the Drum as the assistant secretary.
The Guild was established to advance the interests of the profession, deepen editors’ relationships with their various publics ranging from the media itself, to governments, professional and trade associations and other groups that make up civil society.
It was to be a proactive agent of development to anticipate problems and tackle them, and clarify issues before they got out of hand.
The promise of its birth was soon tested by the crisis that erupted in the early life of the First Republic.
A good number of the editors became casualties of the cat-and-mouse politics of the era.
Jakande was tried alongside Chief Obafemi Awolowo for Treasonable Felony and was jailed in 1963.
That same year, Jose was appointed managing director of the Daily Times, and had become, technically, ineligible to continue on the executive of the Guild as only defacto editors could hold executive office.
By that time also, Aloba was fighting for his job as the Post was enmeshed in a probe into its finances.
With the leadership of the Guild challenged on several fronts, the Guild soon lost direction and could not serve as a moral compass.
The Guild was to undergo a name change to accommodate the electronic media, which added to its problems of identity in subsequent years.
The Guild soldiered on under military rule, 1966-1979, playing an active role in the struggle for press freedom and enhanced respectability for journalism and journalists.
In the light of its membership expansion, and the introduction of assorted job titles, the Guild has continued to grapple with the question of who is an editor.
This issue featured in the crisis that attended the Minna convention of 1982.
Along with capitulation to partisan political interests of the day arising from creeping geopolitical and sectional interests into the affairs of the Guild, the Guild slid into the doldrums for six years before it was resuscitated in 1988.
The membership question resurfaced in 2008 and 2017.
Its ghost is yet to be laid to rest.
In nine days Nigerian editors will meet in Kano to elect a new team to pilot its affairs with major issues of membership, funding yet to be successfully resolved.
In light of major developments in the industry, not the least digital publishing, and redefinition of the shape and practice of the business of editing, and Nigeria’s unfolding political developments, a lot is expected from the body to give quality leadership.
For now, it is meet and proper to congratulate the industry for keeping the Guild relevant till now.
Tomorrow, the Guild is a major actor in the industry’s effort to honour the memory of nine media leaders who passed on in the past year.
The Newspaper Proprietors Association of Nigeria, the Broadcasting Organisations of Nigeria, the Nigerian Guild of Editors, and the Nigeria Union of Journalists, will jointly celebrate Alhaji Lateef Jakande, founding president of the NPAN and NGE, Prince Tony Momoh, former NGE president, Mr. Ben Egbuna, former director general of the FRCN, Mr. Eddie Aderinokun, former editor of Morning Post, Mr. Sam Nda-Isaiah, departed chairman of Leadership Newspapers, Chief Gbolabo Ogunsanwo, former editor of Sunday Times, Mr. Bisi Lawrence, former general manager of Lagos State Broadcasting Corporation, Malam Wada Maida, former president of the Guild and chairman of the News Agency of Nigeria, and Malam Ismail Isa, former president and life patron of the NPAN in “An Afternoon of Tributes” in Lagos, designed to honour the departed and inspire the living.
Happy Diamond anniversary to the Nigerian Guild of Editors, and congratulations to the organised media for shedding its traditional bashfulness to honour its own.
We need more quality intervention programmes to maintain the relevance of the media as guardians and shapers of our public morality.
Idowu is editor in chief of Media Review and the supervising trustee of the Diamond Awards for Media Excellence (DAME)

Presidential transition bill passes second reading
The presidential transition bill has passed through a second reading at the House of Representatives.
The bill titled, “Transition and Assumption of Office Bill, 2020”, sponsored by Kpam Sokpo, seeks to “provide for the procedure and ceremony for transition and assumption of the Office of the President and Vice President by the president-elect and vice president-elect.”
The bill provides that after the declaration of the final results of a presidential election by the Independent National Election Commission (INEC), the transition committee shall ensure that the president-elect and vice-president-elect are provided with adequate security among others.
Daily Trust reports that the bill also proposed sanctions including jail terms for breach of its provisions.
The bill reads in part, “The Committee shall ensure that the President-elect and Vice President-elect receive security briefings from the relevant national security agencies.
“The President-elect and Vice President-elect shall, in consultation with the Committee, carry out such preparations as may be necessary for the purpose of assuming office.”

Ripples in Ogun over LG polls nomination form charges
Stakeholders Thursday kicked against nomination form charges for aspirants in the July 24 local government election in Ogun State.
The chairman of the state electoral body, Babatunde Osibodu, had on Tuesday announced N200,000 and N100,000 as charges for chairmanship and councillorship aspirants’ forms respectively.
Osibodu also announced a nomination form fee waiver for female candidates contesting in the election.
Reacting, the State Chairman of New Nigeria Peoples Party, Oginni Olaposi, described the charges as ‘fraud’.
The NNPP also accused Governor Dapo Abiodun of downplaying the principle of democracy by changing the ‘free, fair and credible’ election to ‘another thing’.
Also speaking, an Egba-born politician and philanthropist, Olumide Aderinokun, described the nomination form charges as “barbaric”, and warned the government against turning the election into revenue generation.
The Action Alliance (AA) Chairman, Sanyaolu Abayomi, threatened that the party might sue the commission if it went ahead with the election.
Abayomi who spoke after the stakeholders meeting said the commission erred in not allowing at least four political parties to make their input before and during the stakeholders meeting on the forthcoming election.
He said: “We do not agree with the time given – that 30 days’ ultimatum.
Because, I think in the timetable that was released earlier, they gave us 90 days, and that’s what we want to challenge today.
“It is clear to us now that there is one power somewhere
that is overall power controlling them.
But, if they want to be fair with all the political parties, and want local government elections to be free and fair, they should listen to us, guide the date they gave us, and go along with the constitution that guides OGSIEC.
If they don’t do that, we won’t mind going to court with them.”
Meanwhile, Governor Abiodun has promised that the local government elections slated for July 24, would not be skewed in favour of the ruling party.
Abiodun told the party leaders that he would not share political positions among men and women who are party faithful during the elections, but promote equal participation, noting that leaders of the ruling party in the state must show that they are products of democracy.
“We must be consistent; we must show that we have learnt from other people’s lessons and that we are the product of democracy.
We have done primaries when somebody else did not want primaries.
“We subjected ourselves to the party process; we evolved through that process which was later confirmed by the general elections despite all odds.
“Let us make sure that whatever process we adopt is democratic, we must be seen as true progressive democrats.
“When it comes to a process like this, what we need to do is to encourage our women to participate, to come forward and participate, we will vote for them.
“But we are not going to share it and say because you are a woman, you take this.
No, that will be undemocratic.
We are not going to do that, there will be fairness,” he stated.

Nadal brushes past Opelka into 12th Rome final
Nine-time champion
Rafael Nadal advanced to the Italian Open final for the 12th time on Saturday with a 6-4, 6-4 win over American Reilly Opelka.
The Spaniard will play either defending champion Novak Djokovic or Italian Lorenzo Sonego in what will also be his 52nd Masters final.
Playing his 500th clay-court match, Nadal staved off break points in the fourth game of the first set and did not look back to win through in 1hr 32min.

Friesland records N199.5bn turnover
FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria PLC, manufacturers of premium milk brands – Peak, Three Crowns, Coast, Nunu and Olympic has reported a turnover of N199.5 billion.
The company disclosed this at its 48th Annual General Meeting held in Lagos.
Speaking at the AGM, the Chairman, Mr. Moyo Ajekigbe, said: “The challenging operating environment in 2020 notwithstanding, the Company’s commercial and financial performance for the year showed considerable improvement compared to the previous year.
Turnover increased by 23% in 2020 to N199.5billion from N161.8billion in 2019.”
He said the growth was due to a combined effect of organic and inorganic growth following the acquisition of Nutricima’s dairy business.
A breakdown of the financials indicates that Profit Before Tax however decreased by 20.3% from N18.8 billion in 2019 to N14.9 billion in 2020 as a result of high input costs and naira devaluation impact.
All the resolutions submitted for shareholder approval were adopted, including the approval of a total dividend payout of N6.74 per N0.50 share.
The Managing Director, Mr. Ben Langat, in his presentation, noted that   the year 2020 was shaped by the company’s continued focus on sustainable business processes.

Ahmed Gulak Killed by unknown Gunmen in Owerri
The former Special Adviser (Politics) to President Goodluck Jonathan, Ahmed Gulak, has been killed by unknown gunmen in Owerri, Imo state.
It was gathered that Gulak was killed at Obiangwu along Aba-Owerri road on his way to the airport apparently to board a flight to Abuja on Sunday morning.
A Facebook post by one of his friends, Umar Ardo, read: “I just confirmed the sad and gruesome death of my friend and classmate, the former Hon.
Speaker of the Adamawa State Assembly, former Special Assistant Political to President Goodluck Jonathan,
Barr Ahmed Ali Gulak was said to have been killed last night by unknown gunmen in Owerri, Imo State.”
A statement signed by the Police Public Relations Officer in the state command, SP Bala Elkana, confirmed Gulak’s killing, adding that the security agency would probe the incident.
“On the 30/5/2021, at about 07:20 am armed bandits intercepted and attacked a Toyota Camry cab carrying Ahmed Gulak and two others who were on their way to Sam Mbakwe Airport to catch a flight.
“The Commissioner of Police Imo, CP Abutu Yaro, has directed a discreet investigation into the matter as tactical and special forces have been deployed to cordon the area and arrest perpetrators,” the statement said.

Taming Nigeria’s oil spillage and gas flaring scourge
By Jerome-Mario Utomi
The recent news report that the Okordia-Rumekpe 14-inch crude truck line operated by Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) discharged some 213 barrels of crude oil into the Ikarama community in Bayelsa, has again brought to our consciousness that though Nigeria prides itself as the giant of Africa and the most populous black nation in the world, yet, it is still riddled with third world challenges.
Essentially, while clarifying that an estimated 1.34 hectares of land was polluted by the leakage, which followed a rupture on the pipeline, SPDC among other things confirmed that probe into the incident had been concluded, noting that out of the 213 barrels of SPDC’s bonny light crude stream leak, some 110 barrels are recoverable from the ongoing recovery exercise at the site, leaving an estimated spilled volume at 109.12 barrels.
Admittedly, these claims by the Dutch oil giant are verifiable facts but may not be the only explanation.
Their clarification notwithstanding, there are indeed reasons that qualify such happening in Nigeria’s oil and gas industry as a reality that demands holistic analysis.
Let’s begin with reality.
Aside from the awareness that spillage occurs, communal rights to a clean environment and access to clean water supplies are violated in such cases and the oil industry, ‘by its admission, has abandoned thousands of polluted sites in the region, which needs to be identified and studied in details while communities adversely affected are adequately compensated for their losses’, this latest spill is coming weeks after a similar one from a ruptured pipeline facility managed by one of the International Oil Companies operating in the Niger Delta that reportedly ravaged Benikrukru and adjourning communities in Warri South West Local Government Area of Delta State.
And another in the early hours of Sunday, March 14, 2021, at Polobubo/Opuama Communities, Warri North Local Government Area of the state, could settle.
Such litany of spillages also include but not limited to, namely; the ‘historic’ large scale spillages in places such as the Ogoni Land, Rivers State and the Erovie community in Ozoro, Isoko North Local Government of Delta State 1990s, both in the Nigeria’s South South geopolitical zones, of which their negative impacts linger.
Are these the only explanations/examples?
The answer is a definite
no, as there exist yet
other critical reasons/concerns why we should view the situation as a crisis.
First and very fundamental is the inability of Nigeria and Nigerians to appreciate and treat crude oil spillage and environmental pollution resulting from exploration/crude oil production related activities as a national calamity.
The second is the stunning consciousness that gas flaring/environmental degradation resulting from crude oil prospecting/production-related activities in the country is under reported.
This second concern stems from a recent comment, which according to media report was credited to the Director-General, National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency, (NOSDRA), Idris Musa, who stated that findings by his agency showed that an average of five oil spills was recorded daily in Nigeria.
Musa, who spoke to journalists in Abuja, said, “In 2018 we had about 600 oil spill incidents and in 2019, we had over 700 oil spill-impacted sites across the country.
This wakeful comment becomes even more relevant to the present discourse when one remembers that Nigeria according to reports is dotted with about 139 gas flare locations spread across the Niger Delta both in onshore and offshore oil fields where gas which constitutes about 11 percent of the total gas produced are flared.
More than anything else, it brings to mind the questions as to; what exactly impedes the development of the petroleum sector and Niger Delta region?
Are there no legislative works?
Why is such a legislative framework not providing a strong source of remedy for individuals and communities negatively affected by oil exploration and production in the coastal communities?
If these frameworks exist, why is it not effective and enforceable?
Is the framework as comprehensive as a legal solution to the issues of oil-related violations?
Why has the nation not learned a valid lesson from the Dutch government where all operators are required to restore their areas of operation back to how nature intended?
Regardless of what others may say, the truth is that if as a nation we are desirous of developing policies that will engineer prosperity in the oil and gas sectors while saving the people of the region, then, we must be ready to locate the strategic triangles that hold the key to success.
Separate from the fact that success requires a careful analysis of the various kinds of knowledge needed to make innovation possible, the need for the nation to straddle the middle ground has become necessary since both the ministry and sector have for a very long time manifested signs of an institution with neither primed nor positioned potentials.
And as we know, any organisation, be it private or public that fails to search for its potentials leaves its survival to chance.
At this instant, looking at both the operational templates of the ministry and how the up, mid and the downstream players of the petroleum industry have become reputed for non-compliance to set rules,  it will not be a wrong assertion to conclude that the critical factors fueling crude oil spillage/gas flaring can be divided into the following; the existence of  multiple but obsolete regulatory framework, which characterises the oil and gas exploration and production in Nigeria; federal government’s failure to get the nations’ refineries back to full refining capacity; the petroleum ministry’s inability to get committed  to making International Oil Companies(IOC’s) adhere strictly to the international best practices as it relates to their operational environment; And finally, non-existence of clear responsibility/work details and action plans for agencies and parastatals functioning under the ministry.
The above failures have as a direct consequence; cast a long dark shadow on the ministry, the sector and the region.
To explain these points beginning with the first challenge, it is worth commenting that the business of crude oil exploration and issues of oil production in the country is regulated by multiple but very weak laws and Acts of which most of these laws not only complicate enforcement but are curiously too old-fashioned for the changing demands of time thereby, creating loopholes for operators, especially the International Oil Companies (IOC) to exploit both the government and host communities.
Some of these laws/Acts in question that have been in operation since the 1960s but currently not achieving their purpose includes but not limited to; the Petroleum Act of 1969, The Harmful Waste(Special Criminal Positions etc), Act 1988, Mineral Oil Safety Regulation 1963, Petroleum(Drilling and Production) Regulation 1969
(Subsidiary Legislation to the Petroleum Act) and the off-shore Oil Revenue (Registration of Grants)Act 1971 among others.
Without minding their number, concepts, provisions and definitions, these laws have become obsolete, old-schooled and out-fashioned to the extent that they now provide leeway for the operators in the sector to exploit both the government and host communities.
Utomi is the Programme Coordinator (Media and Policy), Social and Economic Justice Advocacy (SEJA), Lagos

SEC bans unregistered CMOs from operations May 31
The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) says it will stop operations of the Capital Market Operators (CMOs) yet to renew their registration on May 31.
The commission disclosed this in a circular signed by the management on Monday in Abuja.
The commission said that the CMOs yet to renew their registration at the expiration of late filing on May 31, would not be eligible to operate in the capital market.
Consequently, the commission said that late filing for renewal of registration would only be entertained from May 1 to May 31.
It said that the CMOs were required to have completed the renewal process on or before April 30.
The commission noted that names of the CMOs that had renewed their registration would be published on SEC’s website and national dailies.
It added that the names of eligible CMOs would be communicated to the relevant Securities Exchanges and Trade Associations.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the SEC had in March issued a circular to the general public and the CMOs for the reintroduction of the periodic renewal of registration by operators.

Kano Pillars go top after 1-1 draw at Katsina United
Former champions, Kano Pillars have assumed leadership of the 2021 NPFL table even as they were forced to 1-1 draw by Katsina United in the week 22 match played Sunday at the Muhammadu Dikko stadium in Katsina.
Five minutes after Suraj Ayeleso saved Ahmed Rasheed’s penalty kick, Pillars inspirational captain, Rabiu Ali popped up at the other end to give the ‘Masu gida’ boys the lead from a direct free kick in the 26th minute.
However, Pillars’ lead was short-lived as Ahmed Rasheed made amends for his earlier miss from the spot by heading home Usman Bara’u’s cross to level scores in the 34th minute.
The draw put Pillars on top of the log with 41 points but their reign may not last more than 24 hours, if Akwa United who are on 40 points would beat Rangers today in Uyo.
In Jos, it was a good day in the office for Plateau United who rubbed more salt into Wikki Tourists injuries with a 4-1 victory.
Ibrahim Mustapha scored in the 3rd minute from a tight spot to start the rout before Jibrin Abubakar equalised for the hapless Tourists in the 9th minute.
Thereafter, it was one way traffic as Mohammed Zulkifilu scored a brace (17, 55) before Oche Ohowechi put the icing on the cake for Plateau United in the 90th minute.
Nasarawa United also overwhelmed visiting Heartland 3-1 after Aliyu Abdullahi scored a brace (27, 50) and Martins Owolijah tripled the lead in the 61st minute before Chijoke Akuneto reduced the deficit with a screamer in the 85th minute.
In Gombe, host Adamawa United chased Wolves to a 3-3 draw, FC IfeanyiUbah topped Sunshine Stars 1-0 in Nnewi in the battle of relegation teams, MFM piped Lobi Stars 1-0 in Lagos and Abia Warriors
forced Rivers United to 0-0 draw in Port-Harcourt.
At the Ahmadu Bello stadium Kaduna, Jigawa Stars left it late to draw 1-1 with visiting Dakkada FC.
While the match between Enyimba and Kwara United didn’t hold due to the former’s continental engagement, Akwa United will seek to reclaim the top spot from Pillars when they host Rangers this afternoon.

Golf doesn’t depend on gov’t for foreign tourneys — Oyinlola
The chairman, caretaker committee, Nigeria Golf Federation (NGF), Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola has said since they came on board in 2017, his federation has been attending international competitions without government support.
Speaking during the inauguration of the caretaker committees by the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare on Tuesday, Oyinlola said “Ever since we came on board to administer the federation, we have been up and taking part in international competitions and ensuring our golfers are well exposed.
“As president, I have always been taking part in international competitions.
We have taken our players to Morocco, Ireland, Botswana, Argentina and Mauritius on our own,” he said.
He further said the standard of the game has improved and efforts have been made to improve and discover new talents.
“I think we have gone a step higher than when we came on board.
We have been organizing age-grade competitions to discover new talents.
We have been keeping faith with our programs as far as golf is concerned.
“If we find ourselves going to the Olympics, I’m sure I can get golfers that will do us proud,” he stated.

Cult clashes: Man arrested over ‘killing of cousin’ in Edo
Operatives of the Edo State Police Command have arrested a man identified as Igboje Victor, for allegedly taking part in the killing of his cousin brother during a rival cult fight.
Igboje was among the 54 suspects paraded by the Edo State Police Commissioner, Philip Aliyu Ogbadu, for involving in various crimes in the state.
According to the commissioner, the suspects were arrested for armed robbery, kidnapping, murder, cultism, rape among others.
The incident, it was learnt, happened in Sabogida-Ora Opuje community Owan West local government of Edo State.
‘I’m innocent’
In an interview with Daily Trust, Igboje denied involvement in the killing.
“I was not involved in the killing of my brother but was arrested because I am a member of Eiye cult group while my late brother is in Aiye group.
“In our community, we used to sell Indian Hemp to make money but the Aiye group used the drug business to arrest Eiye members through the police”.
“The leader of both group scheduled a meeting at night to resolve the issue,” he said.
He however added that, on the day of the meeting, Aiye members laid an ambush and shot at Eiye members while on their way to the venue of the meeting, killing one of them who was later taken to the mortuary.
“The brother of the deceased, who is a military officer, said they should go and bury the boy because of his mother”
“After the burial, I went to the neighbouring community to buy food but when I returned, I learnt that Eiye members had gone to attack an Aiye member who happened to be my cousin and he died as a result of the injury he sustained.”
He said he was not among the group that attacked his brother, adding “because we belong to rival cult groups, they said I was the one that killed him
and I was arrested by police alongside others.
“I was not even there when my brother was attacked.
I didn’t kill my brother,” he said.
The commissioner of police, however, said the suspects would be charged to court as soon as the investigation is completed.

Economic woes deepen as bakers hike bread, biscuits prices by 30%
The economic hardship in the country has taken a new dimension as the Association of Master Bakers and Caterers of Nigeria (AMBCN) has directed its members to increase the prices of bread, biscuits and other baked items by 30 percent due to the rising cost of production.
Bread and biscuits are common consumable items in many Nigerian households and before the association gave this directive, many had lamented the sharp increase in cost of items across the country.
At the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of the association held in Abuja recently, members lamented the cost of production and reached the resolution of raising prices.
The national president of AMBCN, Mansur Umar, said the price adjustment was as a result of the sudden increase in the cost of production as well as prices of sugar, butter, yeast and flour.
While commending the federal government for resuscitating the cassava flour programme, the association bemoaned the skyrocketing price of regular flour in the last six months with one truck of flour which cost less than N6 million is now N9m.
“After considering the impact of the skyrocketed prices of baking ingredients/materials for the survival of our noble business, which is presently bleeding, the association came to the conclusion to adjust our prices by 30 percent,” he said.
The association also resolved to ask the federal government to reverse the tariff regime imposed by the National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and to streamline bakers’ regulation by NAFDAC only.
Also speaking, the national secretary, Jude Okafor, was hopeful that the federal government will meet their demands to avert the increase.

D’Tigers draw kenya, Mali, Cote d’Ivoire for 2021 Afrobasket
Nigeria’s senior male basketball team, D’Tigers have been drawn against Kenya, Mali and Cote d’Ivoire in the group stage of the 2021 FIBA Afrobasket.
At yesterday’s brief ceremony, the 2015 Afrobasket champions landed in group C for the tournament to be held between 24th, August and 5th, September.
With many already tipping the D’Tigers as one of the title contenders, Nigeria will still face Cote d’Ivoire (ranked 50), 77th ranked Mali and Coach Liz Mills inspired Kenya who pulled off an upset against Angola with a buzzer beater to qualify after 28 years wait.
The 2021 Tokyo Olympics bound team will hope to go a step further than their 2017 achievement where they won the silver medal.
The team who lost to host-Tunisia had since evolved to become number one in Africa and number 22 in the world.
D’Tigers in 2019 became the first country in the world to qualify for the FIBA World Cup.
Despite narrowly missing out of the quarter finals, the team were able to punch their Olympics ticket as the highest ranked team out of Africa at the tournament.

Illicit drugs: NDLEA uncovers N30bn slush funds
The chairman of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, Buba Marwa, says the NDLEA is currently investigating N30bn slush funds believed to be proceeds of drugs.
He disclosed this in Abuja on Monday while giving commendation letters to 45 outstanding officers as well as best performing commands award for the months of March and April, 2021.
He said the agency’s offensive action would not stop until the nation’s streets, communities, towns and cities had been cleaned up of any remnant of illicit drugs.
He said: “While we keep up the offensive in the field, the leadership of the agency will daily continue to work out effective strategies and tactics to sustain the momentum.
“That is why we’ve strengthened our Directorate of Assets and Financial Investigations to go after all assets or funds linked to drug trafficking which had led to interim and final forfeiture orders on assets and funds worth billions of naira linked to drug traffickers and barons.”
Marwa said the vigour with which the agency was targeting drug cartels had led to the seizure of 2,050,766.33kg of assorted illicit drugs and cash worth over N90bn as well as arrest of 2,175 drug traffickers.
He stressed the need to deny criminal elements all benefits of their proceeds of crime in addition to sending them to jail.

Vigilantes arrest 2 kidnappers in Zaria
Two suspected kidnappers have been arrested by vigilantes at the Low-Cost area of Zaria in Kaduna State, Daily Trust reports.
The incident occurred around 10 pm on Sunday when an unspecified number of kidnappers stormed the low-cost in an attempt to kidnap the residents but were confronted by the local vigilantes.
A resident, who did not want to be named, said the kidnappers were shooting sporadically to scare the people but the vigilantes engaged them in a gun duel before the arrival of the police.
Daily Trust however gathered that four residents were abducted by the other members of the kidnap gang while some youths sustained injuries in the encounter that lasted for about two hours.
Kaduna State Police Command spokesman ASP Mohammed Jalige said the two arrested suspects were undergoing interrogation while their fleeing accomplices were being trailed by the police.

Interrogating IPOB’s Emma Powerful threat to spill blood
The threat to murder in cold-blood by one Emma Powerful, media and publicity secretary of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) of any Igbo who neglects his warning is certainly going too far and should not be ignored, except we have finally descended into anarchy, where the powerful – as the little fascist, Mr. Emma Powerful as he called himself – can drag people out for merely disagreeing with him or his organization and have them dispatched to their ancestor as he boasted.
He did not seem to boast empty; as the mayhem that is enveloping the South East region of Nigeria is obviously orchestrated.
Bereft of the understanding of the simple Igbo leadership etiquette, where a leader is “Onye-oje ozi,” or servant of his people who builds consensus through extensive consultation, the Emma Powerful’ who prefer a thuggish title of “Onye-ike,” whose basic instrument is coercion, intimidation and now threat to murder the same Ndigbo, who he claim to champion their cause.
For a man so intolerant and wired to effortlessly shed blood to advance his cause, the question is who would really want to live in a Cave Republic run by bloody thugs.
The historical Biafra was not a choice made by Ndigbo; it was rather the only available option forced on Ndigbo at the time at a particular time in history, which they braved out with enormous heroism and sacrifice to defend and uphold.
Biafra was not so much rebellion as it was a resistance to affirm the right of a people   not only to exist but to live in dignity.
The historical Biafra was a line of safety drawn so that all of the Igbo people  then, brutally persecuted  who crossed into, can live in relative safety.
The declaration and the struggle of the historical Biafra was not a show piece or a profit-making enterprise for which the current purveyors are curiously engaged in.
Prior to the declaration of Biafra in 1967, the Eastern consultative assembly, a formidable representative and consultative body of all shades of opinions in the eastern region, given the circumstances of the time unanimously agreed and gave their authority to the declaration.
And that was why the war to defend the young republic was a widely shared enterprise of Ndigbo and even other non-Igbo ethnic nationalities in the region, who made unforgettable sacrifices.
Even as the war ended, with the collapse of Biafra, and national reconciliation, Ndigbo returned to project Nigeria without malice and with considerable determination and courage, to enable it work.
The context of contemporary Nigeria’s crises and deepening fissures is on account of a neo-capitalist state hobbled by the backwardness and fetter of the productive forces, shackled and unable to reproduce the material basis for its existence.
As the contemporary Nigeria’s state grows hollow and enters a melting point of atrophy and lethargy, the basic units consisting of ethnic nationalities and other civic, cultural and religious entities struggle for a space of self-preservation, expression and recreation.
In the overall, it is easier to brandish a secessionist flag, without an iota of understanding of the critical socio-economic infrastructure on which a viable state can be constructed.
Africa’s newest state, South Sudan is still tragically in the intensive care unit, leaving the larger number of her population in worse condition than the earlier condition before a brand new state was created.
There is nothing to indicate that the current loud canvasser of Biafra has any insight into what a state establishment and construction is all about.
Even as the independent state, the yearn for are not in insight, the authoritarian and fascist streak of its purveyors like the threat of the Emma powerful that whoever disagrees with him would be dispatched to meet his ancestors are already evident.
Ndigbo is quite sophisticated to be led by thugs and touts, who lack the simple understanding that Igbo political culture and framework is basically consultative.
The little dictator Mr. Nnamdi Kanu, who does not know any village in Igboland, besides his own, claims the leadership of Igbo nation as entitlement, a people, whose lives he hardly understood, except for the inflow of donations from its diaspora.
The media and publicity secretary, Mr. Emma, the ‘Powerful’ through arrogance and petty fascist impunity has done more damage to the Igbo basic framework of consultation and consensus.
Only a thuggish organization issues threats of murder and destruction to those who disagree with it.
But this latest threat issued by Mr. Emma, ‘de powerful’ to dispatch to ancestors; Ndigbo who refused to fall in line with him, is going too far.
.
Charles Onunaiju writes from Abuja

Terms of surrender
Huzaifa Jega
I can only imagine what the men who lowered down the Union Jack – to hoist up in its place ‘hope’ symbolized in Green-White-Green drapery that early morning of October 1st 1960 – felt.
It must have been something like the overwhelming dream logic of the marines who planted the American flag on Okinawa in 1945.
Oftentimes, I dream about being one of them.
I would fantasize being one of them and then going home after the ceremony basking in the apotheotic glow of freedom and the blank canvass placed before my very own means.
I would go to bed, to nirvana, and wait for the morning so I can wake up and go to work.
It is now sixty years since then.
Even though I am only 30 years, I have lived in the nightmare of Nigerian history for every single year in this sixty-year journey and I have felt every disillusionment, every anguish that is to be felt over the failure of my country.
It has been sixty years now… and all my dreams have left me – some have died, of the ravishing drought that followed in this abundantly watered land.
Others have flown out.
What happened to us?
I remember an artwork I saw on the internet reading something about the so-called ‘Age of Discovery.’
In it, a man stood over another man was ostensibly sitting up from a hammock.
This was supposed to be a representation of Amerigo Vespucci rousing the eponymous American continent to “join the league of mankind” as the last continent.
Growing up, my brothers and I did all the house chores during school holidays.
I also remember pretending to fall back to sleep after Subh to avoid doing my own share of the chores and my brothers would bring fire and fury to my bed until I am on my feet, lest I shortchange them.
Unlike America, Africa has always been known since the dawn of time… indeed, she was the first to awaken, she was the one who woke up the rest yet remains the most unknown member of the family – maybe because she went back to sleep, and slept while her siblings worked to discover fire and invent the wheel.
People like Joseph Conrad thus called her the Dark Continent.
Since then, Africa has had no favourable popular culture recognition beside the gory, putrid, wretched-of-the-earth stereotype that was enough to make a couple of American teenage band from the 80s felt compelled by moral duty to bless down the rains to quench her ravishing drought
otherwise she would die.
It did not get any more primeval than that – all she needed was rain, nature, the same thing their  own Neolithic progenitors needed to survive.
Was that what happened?
Did we sneak back to bed, after rousing the rest of the world?
And did we yet again find our way back to sleep after being roused a second time?
Who knew it would get so bad that Africa, together with Nigeria, would need to rely on charity from a couple of teenagers who probably did not even yet know their left from their right hands?
Not I.
Was Conrad right?
Do I have a duty to moral rectitude to surrender to truth, to his profile of my kind?
Do I fly out like the rest of my dreams?
Maybe I should.
How did we get here?
We boarded a car with an engine, sound and sleek, that revved to life like the Ark of Noah as we set out in 1960.
We should be on a rocket ship today heading to Mars, instead we have sunken into the mud, in a jalopy with a pitiful whimper for an engine.
Before my own gnashing eyes, the heart of darkness did become my home and my home became ‘the other world’ – the antithesis of civilization, a place where man’s vaunted intelligence and refinement are finally mocked by triumphant bestiality.
I had resisted Conrad for so long but as the sun has set and I am tired of fighting.
I was ready to surrender; my situation resembled that of Chief Joseph of the Nez Perce native American tribe when he was subdued.
I have read somewhere his sermon to this people after he had surrendered and could not help mouthing them to myself:
“Our chiefs are killed.
Looking Glass is dead.
Toohoolhoolzote is dead.
The old men are all dead.
It is the young men who say, ‘Yes’ or ‘No’.
He who led the young men [Olikut] is dead.
It is cold and we have no blankets.
The little children are freezing to death.
My people, some of them, have run away to the hills, and have no blankets, no food.
No one knows where they are – perhaps freezing to death.
I want to have time to look for my children, and see how many of them I can find.
Maybe I shall find them among the dead.
Hear me, my chiefs!
I am tired.
My heart is sick and sad.
From where the sun now stands, I will fight no more forever.”
I had made up my mind to surrender with terms as dictated by my foes.
I had decided to follow our dreams where they have been exiled to.
I will join the mile-long queue at the American or British or Canadian embassies and fly away.
About three weeks after 1st October 2020 as I drove up from Dape, a ghetto settlement in Gwarimpa, I noticed something.
An epiphany.
Lo!
it was that same flag from my dank reveries.
Green-White-Green.
But in the middle where the two green meadows yielded to the white valley, three words sang a melody that would have meant utterly nothing to me before the breaking of the world: “
E Go Beta.”
Now, who the hell put that there?
I was so heavy laden… and to think that I would see this here of all places!
This was a place with people who have a lot more face-value reasons than I to despair and this fact threw me off balance.
An epiphany was before my eyes.
I could fly away and mooch off the sweat of others.
I could surrender and fight no more and my life would be that of consummate comfort.
But here I am, and I can see that I will not stand alone
should I choose to stand.
I could fly away, live and then die.
But here, before me, in the land of my ancestors, was the prospect of immortality.
Here I can actually live a life full of event and excitement, of building and breaking; breaking records and barriers that have never been broken elsewhere and defeating despair.
Where else can anyone defeat despair so completely than in the Heart of Darkness?
Maybe I will die trying, but how can a man die better than by facing odds so fearful as the ones before me?
We don’t have to build skyscrapers, or nuclear power stations or maglev trains – we will build the next best thing, and maybe Conrad will be the one wanting a piece of those.
He has reached saturation, but we are only at ten percent.
We can rise and rise until lambs become lions and by the time the sun sets on my generation, I would be a fulfilled man.
I will endure the long March and then maybe reap from it too.
If not, I will still be a fulfilled man on my deathbed someday.
Nothing beats being fulfilled on your deathbed.
So then, here are my new terms of surrender: none.
We fight on.
Huzaifa is a management consultant and writes from Abuja

Officer who sneaked drugs, phones into prison nabbed in Kano
Operatives of the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS) have nabbed one of their officers who reportedly sneaked in over 4.8kg of cannabis sativa and eight Android phones into the correctional facility in Kano.
There was an uproar at the correctional centre on Thursday after the prison wardens detected and seized the cannabis allegedly brought to some inmates on death row at Kurmawa prison.
The seizure, according to reports led to resistance and the uproar from the inmates, while authorities promised to investigate how the illicit drugs got into the facility.
The spokesperson of the NCoS in Kano state, Musbahu Lawal Kofar Nassarawa, confirmed to Daily Trust that one of their staff (name withheld) was nabbed for colluding with other dealers outside to sneak the seized items into the prison.
He said, “We have arrested one of our staff who connived with these people to bring in 4.8kgs of cannabis and eight android phones to some inmates on death row, and that was why we had uproar on Thursday after our operatives have seized it.
“This staff who works in the facility was recruited just two years ago in 2019.
We have already handed him over to National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) for further action.
He will be arraigned before court, and if he is found guilty, he can be suspended.
“We will find out for how long this has been happening and whether there are other people involved in similar scandal,” Kofar Nassarawa said.
He added that the service will continue to work hard to detect similar practices in the facility.
Daily Trust recalled that in 2020, a woman was arrested for sneaking a phone to another prisoner on death row.
Similarly, another woman was apprehended with cannabis concealed in a carton of instant noodles.

Centre lauds INEC for creating gender, inclusivity depts
The Centre for Transparency Advocacy (CTA) has commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for its re-organisation that led to the creation of the Gender and Inclusivity Department (GID)
that hitherto was a unit in the commission.
The Executive Director of the centre, Faith Ossai Nwadishi, in a statement, expressed joy that INEC was poised to reposition itself bearing in mind the realities of today and the need to promote inclusiveness in its operations.
She also noted that in this new arrangement, INEC created two departments out of the present Department of Legal Services, Clearance and Complaints (LSC&CC) and that the new departments are Department of Litigation and Prosecution (DL&P) and Department of Legal Drafting and Clearance (LDCD).
She said the centre agrees and supports INEC in the review and realignment of some of its departments for improved effectiveness and efficient management of its human resources and assets.

6 NIPP plants, 22 new substations added to power grid in 6 years — Report
At least six National Integrated Power Projects (NIPP)
Generation Companies (GenCos) and 22 power substations built and operated between 2015 and now, have significantly driven improvement on the national electricity grid to the 5,800 megawatts (MW) highest peak energy recorded in March 2021.
This is according to the latest NIPP report on power projects execution since 2015, obtained from the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC) by Daily Trust.
The NIPP is an intervention vehicle warehoused in NDPHC and owned by the federal, state and local governments.
In 2015, the power grid hovered between 4,500 megawatts (MW) enabled by the commissioning and utilisation of the Geregu, Omotosho, Olorunsogo, Alaoji, Calabar and Ihovbor NIPP GenCos
that added nearly 1,000MW to the grid.
However, the grid continued to rise with all-time peak electricity reaching 5,801.60MW as of March 2021, according to the statistics from the Independent System Operations (ISO) arm of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN).
NDPHC started the NIPP intervention with the first phase in power generation.
It began to build 10 power GenCos known as the “The Big Ten” around gas-producing states including Ondo, Ogun, and Kogi states.
However, until 2015, some of them were still ongoing.
The second phase was then launched from 2015 to include intervention projects focusing on transmission, distribution, and renewable energy towards meeting NDPHC’s mandate of ‘Lighting the Nation’.
Currently, there are six power GenCos producing about 3,400MW electricity in the national grid while the four other GenCos are ongoing.
Even among the four, some of its turbines have been commissioned and operational since 2015.
Analysis of the report indicates that the NIPP intervention in the transmission section of the power sector value chain, NDPHC has completed 22 substations comprising 10 units of 330/132 kilovolts (kV) level and 12 units of 132/33kV substations.
It has also completed 2,194 kilometres of 330kV power transmission line and 887km of 132kV transmission lines.
These infrastructures since 2015, have added 5,590MVA energy supply capacity at the 330kV level and 3,793MVA at the 132kV level.
To promote renewable and clean energy, the NIPP in the second phase became a major driver of the federal government’s energy mix by 2030 known as Vision 30-30-30) which seeks to make renewable energy to be at least 30 per cent of the energy grid by 2030.
While it has installed 20,000 Solar Home Systems (SHS) in some northern states, the NIPP is delivering a huge part of the ongoing five million SHS to households nationwide under the Economic Sustainability Plan (ESP).
There is also intervention in the gas sector towards solving the major challenges of the power plants which is the availability of gas-to-power.
According to the Managing Director of NDPHC, Mr Chiedu Ugbo, in an interview with Daily Trust, the company is achieving this through the Fuel & Gas/Public Private Partnership (PPP) model.
It created a department for this to spearhead its gas pipelines and feed stock connecting all the 10 NIPP GenCos.
In terms of power distribution, the report said the NIPP intervention has seen the completion of over 360 NIPP injection substations with a combined capacity of about 3,540MW.
To complement these substations, NDPHC has also built about 2,600km of 11kV power distribution lines and 4600km of 33kV distribution lines which directly supply electricity to transformers in residential areas.
There have also been 296 Appropriated Distribution Projects, which included injection substations, 1924 of 33kV lines, 4600km of 11kV line and other infrastructure.
“NDPHC has also increased its distribution capacity with the installation of 25,900 Completely Self-Protected (CSP) transformers across the country,” added Mr Ugbo.
In spite of these achievements that have helped to improve the national grid operations, the report highlighted threats to the infrastructure especially at the power distribution level.
“Some of the challenges NDPHC has met in distribution include theft of equipment and infrastructure, vandalism, lack of cooperation from Distribution Companies (DisCos).
The others are community issues regarding land and Right of Way (ROIs), vehicular accidents that have damaged some power infrastructure and the rising insecurity across facility areas,” it stated 
In a comment to evaluate the viability of the NIPP interventions to Nigerian electricity consumers, the President, Nigeria Consumer Protection Network (NCPN), Barrister Kunle Kola Olubiyo, said the essence of the power sector privatization exercise concluded in November 2013 was to promote competitive economy and inclusive growth by private sector drivers.
He however said despite this, the sector has not attained such viability, and so there was the need for the government to deepen the interventions through NIPP.
“In spite of all the tremendous milestone achievements by NIPP/NDPHC, there are major areas of impediments on the full realisation of the lofty ideals of NIPP as championed by the management of NDPHC.”
Mr Olubiyo said some of these challenges include the delay in taking over projects by the DisCos which should be captured in their Capital Expenditure (CAPEX).
He also said the delay in the implementation of the Eligible Customers regulation by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) was a hindrance.
“With the huge power assets that NIPP has provided, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) and other dedicated power users can decide to connect to the NIPP plants and facilities directly and enjoy uninterrupted power supply, but this is being delayed.”
Another challenge for the NDPHC is funding, which according to him, should be raised by the equity stakeholders (federal, state and local governments) for more power sector projects.
“The leadership of the power sector will also need to address the low tariff for NIPP Plants and the low load (energy) dispatch of the available units from TCN.
Consumers are looking for more electricity, why should energy from NIPP GenCos be restricted?
Olubiyo queried.

Ramadan: Feeding vs. Tafseer controversy
Unlike elsewhere, Ramadan season in Nigeria has unfortunately been turned into a season of unnecessary controversy.
Starting from the recurrent controversy over the advent of the Ramadan crescent that ushers in the month and the exit of its moon that marks its end,
the Ramadan period equally witnesses controversy over ideological, jurisprudential or political stances expressed by some Ulama in the course of their Qur’anic tafseer sessions.
Yet, over the past couple of years, there has been unnecessary controversy over which charitable deed between sponsoring the broadcast of Qur’anic tafseer and charitable mass feeding for the needy is more worthwhile in Ramadan.
As in other Muslim societies, Ramadan usually inspires a phenomenal rise in individual and societal spirituality in Nigeria where many wealthy individuals sponsor live or recorded broadcasts of Qur’anic tafseer by various Ulama.
Many others also spend more on charitable mass feeding for the poor.
However, while almost, if not all, who sponsor the broadcast of tafseer do also spend on charitable feeding, not all who spend on charitable feeding sponsor the broadcast of tafseer.
During Ramadan in a typical northern Nigerian city, television and radio stations make a killing with the sale of airtime for tafseer and other religious lectures sponsored by individuals, firms and groups.
From the sheer number of sponsored broadcasts of tafseer and other religious lectures on the more than 10 radio stations in Kano, for instance, one may wonder whether they do other programmes in Ramadan.
Now, while sponsoring tafseer broadcast is absolutely worthwhile, especially during Ramadan, the amount of resources spent in this regard might be disproportionate considering the desperate need for food that the largely hunger-stricken audiences are languishing in.
After all, given the choice, they would certainly choose food handouts over such sponsored broadcasts as public tafseer sessions are everywhere during Ramadan for one to choose which to attend.
Besides, looking at the underlying dynamics and politics of sponsoring Ramadan tafseer broadcast, one cannot rule out Riyaa, sectarian and even political interests as some of the motives behind sponsoring the broadcast of some tafseer and other religious lectures.
Interestingly, while some sponsors compete in sponsoring the broadcast of tafseer by some prominent Ulama, some Ulama sponsor the broadcast of their own tafseer in the absence of a willing sponsor; others even beg for sponsors to sponsor theirs.
Also, as the contents of some tafseer and other religious lectures feature some serious flaws, sponsoring their broadcast is a gross misplacement of priority.
Equally interesting, others sponsor the broadcast of Adhan (Kiran Sallah) in a city like Kano
where, thanks to the sheer proliferation of mosques, regular Adhan reaches every nook and cranny.
Anyway, while Ikhlas is always the most fundamental yardstick that determines the worthwhileness or otherwise of both charitable feeding and the sponsoring of Ramadan tafseer broadcast, striking an appropriate balance between the two guarantees the perfect outcome.
Because as much as Ramadan is the month of the Qur’an when Muslims are expected to be particularly committed to it in terms of reading, learning its meanings and living accordingly,
it’s equally the month of generous charity when Muslims, particularly the wealthy, are expected to do much more in terms of charitable works especially mass feeding.
However, while that’s simply the bottom line, which also explains why the controversy is absolutely unnecessary, the so-called liberal Muslims have blown it out of proportion.
Capitalizing on public frustration amid the unbearable hunger ravaging the largest segment of the society, they question the worthwhileness and relevance of sponsoring the broadcast of Ramadan tafseer under the prevailing circumstances.
Also, feigning empathy and concern, they address the two charitable works as though mutually exclusive and thus people should choose between them.
Unsurprisingly, and under the pressure of the hard conditions, many people, including many otherwise discerning folks, fell for that propaganda not realising its context, which is the raging face-off between the so-called liberal Muslims, on the one hand, who are hell-bent on undermining Islamic and moral values in the society, and the wholehearted Muslims, on the other, especially the Ulama among them who are committed to encouraging people to never neglect their religious commitments in pursuit of their legitimate worldly pursuits.
Also, contrary to their claim, such so-called liberal Muslims aren’t actually disturbed by the plight of the vulnerable, which explains why they never urge those spending huge resources on other things, no matter how absolutely worthless, to divert the resources to charitable courses.
Likewise, they never urge that the massive amounts of resources their elite role models spend on maintaining their extravagant lifestyles should be diverted to the feeding of the poor or sheltering them.
Instead, their “conscience” comes alive only when the resources are meant for, say, Hajj, Umrah, Da’awah etc.

Federer’s conqueror amazed by dream day at the office
After wrecking Roger Federer’s return to the tennis courts, Pablo Andujar said it was the sweetest moment of a lengthy career.
The Spaniard beat Federer 6-4, 4-6, 6-4 on the Geneva clay on Tuesday to overturn the Swiss tennis great’s hopes of stringing a run of matches together ahead of a series of major tournaments – the French Open, Wimbledon and the Tokyo Olympics.
At match point on Tuesday, Andujar, the world number 75, held his head in his hands in disbelief after beating the 20-time Grand Slam champion.
“It’s amazing.
I still cannot believe,” the 35-year-old told ATPTour.com.

Memories of Nigeria’s colours in black and white (III)
Sometime after that, and after I had two popular cartoon strips in the now-defunct newspaper called The Democrat, and got my first four rejection letters from Marvel Comics, I somehow remained a young man full of hope.
Nigeria, even with monumental ups and downs, still allowed me to dream, to be an artist or writer at the world’s foremost pop culture company in another country, on another continent.
Fast-forward to 2002, one day as I was setting out to the post office in the city centre to drop off my latest art samples to Marvel’s Submissions Editor, I couldn’t get a bus.
Loads of people were walking on foot, while some gathered in clusters, with worried looks on their faces.
A bit weirded out, I walked back home, only to hear that riots had broken out.
Again, many lives were lost, and families and friends were torn apart as a move by Christians to Kaduna South, and Muslims to Kaduna North from the South, began.
My Kaduna – my Nigeria, really – was falling apart.
A small consolation was that some Christian friends who stayed in certain areas, like my mine, felt safe and didn’t move.
So, while the violence raged in other parts, my friends and I would play soccer on the street, and exchange VHS tapes, and bootleg VCDs.
The concept of hating someone because of his ethnicity or religion, frankly, seemed incredulous to us.
But a fellow teen, who had moved to my neighbourhood a couple of years earlier, would provide me with my first, bare-faced encounter with bigotry.
Assuming we somehow were all Muslim, playing soccer, this new guy made a clear call for us to ‘go and attack the infidels who lived down the road’.
We all looked at each other most comically, with puzzled expressions, after which we burst into laughter, then sternly told him to get lost.
As if that wasn’t bad enough, my heartbreak would worsen with the appearance of labels and slurs from both ‘sides’.
My perfect Kaduna was now in smoking ruins, and close-knit families and bosom friends would part ways, not because they stopped loving each other, but because it was the safest thing to do.
After that end of innocence, I faced university with cautious optimism.
Many old friends were there, as Zaria was a stone’s throw from Kaduna, figuratively speaking.
Many new friendships were begun as well, many of them remaining till today, some even stronger.
The best part of that part, is that none of those friendships, new or old, are coloured by religion or ethnicity.
It seemed to some us who noticed, that the Kaduna we knew, loved, and lost, wasn’t really gone.
It couldn’t be gone, for the simple reason that it actually resided in our hearts, and so was hard to kill.
The almost two decades I spent as a journalist after all that, showed me things which many cannot even begin to experience in a whole, robust lifetime.
I had front row seats to riots, violent attacks, concerts by superstars, movie premieres, and all kinds of generation-defining moments.
I also got to regularly interview some of the biggest newsmakers in Nigeria, during moments when they had the most chutzpah, or none at all.
It was a Nigeria without social justice warriors, virtue-signalers, outrage-peddlers, or cancel culture-purveyors.
It was a Nigeria that, while flawed, still reminded me of my Kaduna of old, even if it wasn’t a mirror image.
But a body can only take so much for such a long time.
On the bed, I looked around my old room once more, everything just as I left it pre-Coronavirus lockdown.
I smiled to myself, as I had at that moment decided on my next steps.
I twirled the rubber band round the stack of photos twice, and put them back into the longbox.
Maybe one day I will look at the other ones, the colour photos, which carry relatively more recent memories.
Maybe I won’t.
One thing remains clear: It is my mother, and my father, and the relationships they had – or didn’t have – with me, that made me the kind of kid
I was to the other kids who knew me, as well as the man I grew up to be, to those who know me.
But I find it unsettling, and relieving – mostly relieving – that in my stack of black and white photos, I have realized that while my head guides the kind of person I have become, it is my heart that has kept me Nigerian all these years.
(Concluded)

42 Niger communities under Boko Haram control — Senator Musa
The Senator representing Niger East in the National Assembly, Senator Mohammed Sani Musa, has said that about 42 communities in Niger State have fallen under Boko Haram control.
Some 5,000 villagers have been displayed in the last three days.
This is coming a day after Niger State governor, Sani Bello, raised the alarm that the insurgents have hoisted their flag in some communities.
Speaking on the floor of the Senate on Tuesday while moving a motion on the killings in Shiroro, Munya and Rafi local government areas of Niger State, Senator Musa said over 475 persons had been killed by bandits and terrorists in Niger East between January 2020 to date.
The lawmaker expressed worry that for almost seven years now Niger East Senatorial District of Niger State have come under constant and sustained multiple deadly attacks by “heartless, venomous and hydraheaded” Boko Haram terrorists.
The result has been total collapse of the local economies of the affected victims, total collapse of educational system in the affected areas, famine due to collapse of agricultural activities, displacement as a result of desertion of crisis prone areas, depopulation as a result of wanton deaths, among others.
He said the attacks are taking place in the absence of the slightest “hindrance, resistance or confrontation” from authorities.
“They have kidnapped many and their wives seized from them and forcefully attached to Boko Haram members.
Three military camps in Allawa, Bassa and Zagzaga in the two local government areas have been sacked and some security personnel killed by the insurgents in the last one month of renewed attacks.
“I can authoritatively confirm that the Boko Haram terrorist have mounted their flags in many of the villages they have captured such as Kaure, Alawa and Magami.
Inhabitants of these war-torn parts of the State have been abandoned and left to their fate thereby compelling them to wallow in perpetual agony and abject misery.
“Furthermore at this moment primary schools in Gwada, Kuta, Pandogari and Minna have hurriedly been turned to IDP camps following the sacking of nearly 5600 villagers from their ancestral homes in Shiroro, Rafi and Munya local government areas in the last few weeks by bandits who raided the towns and villages.
And what this means is that if they can launch attacks without hindrance in Niger East Senatorial District
then I don’t see how we can be safe in Abuja anymore.”
He said between March 2021 to date same terrorists have killed more than 25 gallant soldiers, mobile policemen and other security personnel, while more than 16 civilians were killed, many others unaccounted for.
“If this menace is not drastically addressed, the attacks will continue and the danger is that it may escalate further to other communities.
which are mostly farming communities and they are farmers, may desert their farms this season and this will negatively affect the food sufficiency and economic diversification policy of the Federal Government,” he added.

My sojourn in Adamawa State
Working with the government at any level offers innovators like me the chance to bring more impact and transformation than we ordinarily would in our fields.
I strongly believe that the government, as an institution, is the greatest vehicle for systemic change and positive transformation one could ever find.
Therefore, whenever I come across opportunities to work with any government body, whether locally or internationally, I am immediately struck with great excitement because it represents a great opportunity for me to learn from and contribute to the civil service in fields that are exciting and transformative to people beyond what my usual entrepreneurial endeavours entail.
One of my recent sojourns of such nature is to Adamawa State, which is fascinating for me because of its diversity, resilience and outstanding potential.
I began actively working in Adamawa State a few years ago, with the international organisation, OXFAM, on a project in line with European Union’s support to food security and resilience in northern Nigeria where we deployed a mobile solution to integrating the agricultural value chain.
We worked with field officers representing Fufore, Guyuk, Mubi South and Song Local Government Areas in Adamawa State to enhance their agricultural and agribusiness practices with technology.
However, my return to Adamawa State last year was towards a grander and even more exciting task.
It involved a preposition to work with the state government to transform the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Development and Poverty Alleviation as well as the Wealth Creation Agency (PAWECA) with the general aim of reducing poverty and sustainably improving prosperity especially for the teeming young people in the State.
For some context, I was incredibly delighted to learn that the state government had established the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Development to help lay focus on entrepreneurship and technical skill acquisition.
Having been non-existent until the Government of Ahmadu Umar Fintiri’s administration established it, the ministry has become a key pillar of the administration’s strategies towards economic development in the state.
The role of these institutions is as salient as it is needed in Adamawa State, with its fair share of youth unemployment, security and other challenges.
It is, however, very evident that the Adamawa State Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Development, as well as the Poverty Alleviation and Wealth Creation Agency (PAWECA), can be adequately utilised in transforming the local economy, boosting youth entrepreneurship and drastically reducing unemployment in the state.
But like most government institutions, this requires disciplined and dedicated efforts to achieve.
Typically, where they exist, complex internal organisational challenges shackle the growth and efficiency of these types of institutions.
To understand this conundrum, I spoke with Adamawa State’s Secretary to the State Government, Malam Bashiru Ahmad, who is not only passionate about the issue but remarkably informed about local and global efforts around it and as such uniquely positioned to help chart a way for solving it.
He reiterated Governor Fintiri’s commitment to solving youth unemployment and enhancing the local economy by boosting entrepreneurship.
Malam Bashiru also expressed his ideas and understanding around reforming and improving the capacity of ministries and agencies of government, arguing that the desired transformation can only be possible by enhancing the culture of innovation, embracing the use of technology, and improving internal processes and procedures so that effective service and programme delivery can be achieved.
This is because the challenges that most public and even private institutions seek to solve continue to generate demands that can only be met by technologically savvy, innovation-driven, forward-thinking, and efficient institutions.
In the course of the weeks to follow after this encounter, I also met the Commissioner of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship, and Youth Development, Ilya James, and the head of the Poverty Alleviation and Wealth Creation Agency (PAWECA), Hajiya Aisha Bawa Bello, to examine what they have and lay grounds for developing initiatives based on global best practices.
We are to establish an organisational culture that is efficient and result-driven and equip the ministry and agency to become innovation-driven through the use of technology.
In a demonstrable, result-oriented way we would also initiate human-centred design thinking among staff and optimise internal processes to ensure quality service delivery.
Lastly, we will offer tools for the adequate monitoring and measuring of organisational performance of the ministry and agency.
These will go hand in hand with already existing as well as newly-hatched programs and campaigns of the two institutions.
Governor Fintiri’s administration, by its sheer resolve and commitment towards capacity development in partnership with various global and indeed local partners like the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Nigerian Content Development Board (NCDB), upgrading of vocational and fabrication centres like the Vocational Technical Training Centers (VTTC) after years of utter neglect, strengthening the technical departments of polytechnics and universities in the state and declaring free education in the state’s public schools including enrolling 38,000 Almajiri children back to school, I think will create a tremendous explosion of buried talent and potential that will certainly be instrumental to the development of the entire Northeastern region with all its peculiar social challenges.
I am also quite inspired by Governor Fintiri’s obsession with local content participation policies in all projects and programmes, which is evident in the governor’s drive for local content participation in the NEDC Rapid Response projects coupled with being the key galvaniser and pivot of the North East Governor’s forum.
As I landed this week in Yola, the state capital of Adamawa, amidst all these aspirations for the great Fombina, as the region is historically referred to, I was beset with a renewed melancholy at the loss of one of the greatest sons of Adamawa, and Nigeria’s foremost public servant and academic, Dr. Mahmud Tukur, who in his lifetime had epitomised a brand of active patriotism hinged on developing capacities of people and promoting values at all cost.
May Allah grant him great rewards and enable us to fulfill his dreams and aspiration for Nigeria as a whole.

Sinner sets up Nadal clash in Rome second round
Jannik Sinner booked a second-round showdown with nine-time champion Rafael Nadal at the Italian Open after a 6-2, 6-4 win over Frenchman Ugo Humbert on Monday.
The Italian teenager will face the 20-time Grand Slam winner for the second time, having impressed against Nadal in last year’s
French Open quarter-finals despite losing in straight sets.
Nadal has a 9-2 record on clay this season but was beaten in the last eight at both previous Masters events, in Monte Carlo and Madrid.
Aslan Karatsev matched Sinner with his 20th win of the season.
The Russian beat Miomir Kecmanovic 7-6 (7/2), 6-4 in the opening round.

Nigerians angry as Governors mull N408/litre fuel price
Nigerians have expressed anger over the proposal of the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF) committee on fuel subsidy, to push for the full deregulation of the downstream petroleum sector that will leave petrol price at N408.5 per litre.
At a virtual meeting on Wednesday, the committee chaired by Kaduna State governor Nasir El-Rufai in a report, recommended a Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) otherwise called petrol price of between N408.5 per litre and N380 per litre while calling for the immediate removal of fuel subsidy.
El-Rufai said the current subsidy regime was unsustainable, and only smugglers and illegal marketers benefit from it.
He also said Nigeria could not fully benefit from the recent production cut by Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), which was meant to keep fuel prices high, because of subsidies.
“Between N70 billion and N210bn is estimated to be spent every month to keep gasoline price at N162 per litre, this is below the cost price and the remittance to the federation account will shrink to less than N50bn per month or even zero if threats persist,” he said.
“The committee recommends PMS pump price increment from the current N162per litre to N408.5 per litre
(negotiations with organized labour unions).
N380 per litre (settlement with organized labour).”
Furore trails governor’s stance  
Reacting to this on Thursday, Nigerians across the states unleashed their anger on the governors.
In Anambra state, a civil servant, Mr. Uzoma Okeke said the proposal was unthinkable given the state of the nation’s economy.
A bus driver, Michael Okafor said he was already struggling to buy petrol at N170/litre in the state.
In Jos, Plateau State, Malam Nura Alhassan, a tailor, expressed dismay over the development.
“If the proposal becomes reality, the poor in this country will suffer a lot because whatever figure is increased, the effect will fall on the ordinary Nigerian.”
More persons reacted to this in Kaduna, Port Harcourt, Abeokuta, Jos and Kano.
For instance, in Kano, Buhari Abba Rano, 36, said, “With this level of insecurity around Nigerian governors are busy commissioning fake projects and loitering around Abuja and overnight agitating for complete deregulation.
This this shows that our crude oil has become useless and they don’t care about the lives of the common man.”
Fatima Baba Kura said: “I believe this proposed price will set back the country to a worse state than it is.”
In Lagos, many Nigerians expressed shock over the proposed fuel price increment from the governors who are supposed to defend their people.
A student, Miss Onyekachi Emeka said the price increase would trigger a hike in transportation fare.
Across Akwa Ibom, Abia and Edo states, the residents corroborated the views of other Nigerians as they described the proposal as unfair to the Nigerian populace who have already had enough of the inflation rate, high cost of food and fuel and the deteriorating security situation.
Discard proposal, experts, union tell FG
Experts who reacted to this development have urged the federal government to discard the governors’ proposal in the best interest of Nigerians.
A petrol industry commentator, Siraju Oyewale said arbitrary fixing of fuel price is antithetical to the principle of deregulation.
“I have a problem with people sitting down and fixing prices of petrol.
That is not deregulation.
That is still price regulation.
Politicians, or even government agencies fixing prices is antithetical to the principle of deregulation.”
Although he supports deregulation, Oyewale said the price would initially rise above the current price but not up to N380.
Oyewale also said Nigeria must refine its crude oil locally to tackle the rising petrol import cost by NNPC.
An Abuja based economic expert, Samson Simon Galadima said selling petrol at more than twice the current price would further exacerbate inflationary pressure, hence, impoverishing Nigerians even more as purchasing power is diminished.
Galadima said a lasting solution to Nigeria’s fuel price instability will be a deeply diversified energy-mix “because our overdependence on petrol is quite unhealthy”.
President of the Independent Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Chinedu Okoronkwo said it was wrong for the NGF to fix fuel price.
He said full deregulation would encourage more local and foreign investors to invest in the sector and grow the economy but that the governor’s proposal should not be honoured.
Only FG can tell us how much to sell fuel – NNPC
The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has said it will not go with the proposal by NGF that a litre of petrol should be sold at N380.
NNPC’s spokesman Dr Kennie Obateru who disclosed this to Daily Trust on Thursday said fuel price as it is now is a policy issue and only the federal government could direct the corporation to sell at specific price.
“We are still waiting for the conclusion of the ongoing meeting between the organised labour and the Federal Government.
It is after the outcome of the meeting that we can say the price can be announced.
It is a policy issue and we just have to wait for the federal government’s pronouncement”, Obateru said.
NNPC said the NGF only made a proposal which could be accepted or discarded by the federal government.
By Zakariyya Adaramola, Simon E. Sunday (Abuja), Abdullateef Aliyu, Christiana T. Alabi (Lagos), Titus Eleweke (Awka), Linus Effiong (Umuahia), Iniabasi Umo (Uyo), Peter Moses (Abeokuta), Zahraddeen Y. Shuaibu (Kano), Ado A. Musa (Jos), Maryam Ahmadu-Suka (Kaduna) & Victor Edozie
(Port Harcourt)

PDP govs lack moral standing to demand for restructuring — APC chieftain
A chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Director General of the Progressives Governors Forum (PGF), Salihu Mohammed Lukman has said governors elected on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) lack the moral standing to demand for executive bill and restructuring of the country.
PDP governors had a few days ago after their meeting in Ibadan, asked President Muhammadu Buhari to send an executive bill to the National Assembly to amend the country’s Constitution to devolve more powers to the states among others.
But reacting in a statement yesterday, the PGF Director General said there was nothing new in the resolutions as progressive governors in line with recommendations contained in the APC Committee on True Federalism, have already taken a position on the matter and since communicated it to the top echelon of the National Assembly.
“Having mismanaged opportunities to initiate all the recommendations being proposed by the PDP governors between 1999 and 2015, how can anybody in PDP claim any moral standing to demand for any executive bill?
“If the issue is as simple as getting the President to transmit executive bill, what stops all the PDP Presidents from initiating it for sixteen years?”
he queried.

Lightning kills 18 elephants in India
A herd of 18 wild Asiatic elephants were found dead in India’s eastern state of Assam, possibly because of a massive lightning strike, local officials said on Friday.
Fourteen adult elephants were found dead by villagers on Thursday.
Another four bodies were found scattered on the foothills of the Kundoli reserve forest area of Assam, 160 kilometres from the state capital of Dispur, local wildlife official, M.K Yadava, told Reuters.
The state government ordered a high-level inquiry into the incident on Friday, Assam’s Forest and Wildlife Minister, Parimal Suklabaidya, said.
“A preliminary report suggests the deaths could be due to lightning although we need to find out through forensic tests if there could be any other reason like poisoning or disease,’’ the minister added.
Locals, who found the elephants, said the animals could have been killed by a lightning strike late on Wednesday, a local forest ranger said, adding that he had seen burnt trees in the area.
The ranger declined to be named as he was not authorised to speak to the media.
(Reuters/NAN)

COAS: ‘Appointing junior officer over seniors weakens morale’
A former deputy national publicity secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, faulted the appointment of Major- General Farouk Yahaya as the Chief of Army Staff.
Frank, in a statement in Abuja, noted that President Muhammadu Buhari’s penchant to elevate junior officers in the security establishments to superintendent over their seniors was against the much-cherished military tradition of seniority and subordination.
He said the elevation of Yahaya above his seniors was a direct hit against the military, which will see senior, capable officers being purged through compulsory retirement as seen in the past.
The development, he said, was capable of “breeding widespread distrust, discontent, disloyalty, low morale and lack of motivation in the military and other security agencies.

APC lauds Mustapha Habib’s appointment as new NEMA DG
The All Progressives Congress (APC) has expressed excitement over the recent appointment of Ahmed Mustapha Habib as the new Director-General of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA).
The appointment was announced earlier by the presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu.
Mustapha Habib, a Business Administration graduate of Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, took over from AVM Muhammadu Alhaji Muhammad (rtd).
In a congratulatory letter signed by the National Secretary, Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe, the ruling party thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for considering the new appointee worthy of the position.
“I write to convey the felicitation of the National Chairman Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), H.E (Hon)
Mai Mala Buni, and the entire membership of the party on your appointment as the Director-General of NEMA.
“This particular appointment is a demonstration of reward for party loyalty and recognition of selfless service to the country, attributes which clearly describe your persona.
“We trust in your capacity to acquit yourself creditably well in your new assignment.
“The party is quite appreciative of this gesture of Mr President and wishes you the very best in this endeavour,” APC said.
The new NEMA boss has extensive experience that spanned about 25 years across various sectors, he sits on the Board of various corporate, political and youth organisations, and was the national chairman of Progressive People’s Alliance between 2010 and 2011.
An active player in the organisational and policy drives of the APC government, Habib was a member of the Presidential Campaign Council in 2019 and national chairman of the National Committee of Buhari Support Groups since 2015, and also the vice-chairman of the federal government-run State Selection Committee on the Extended Special Public Works Programme in Jigawa State.

Abia gov rejects IPOB’s strategy, demands apology over war crimes against Igbos
The Abia State Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu has explained why he differed with the strategy of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) secession and violence strategy.
He spoke on Friday when he visited the digital pan-African news network, the TOS TV network, led by Ms. Osasu Igbinedion in Abuja.
The governor who faulted the strategy being deployed by the IPOB led by self-exiled Nnamdi Kanu, however noted that the Ndigbo has not been fairly treated in the country.
According to him, the destructive strategy of IPOB was a recipe for the breakdown of law and order in the South East geopolitical zone.
Listing other reasons for differing with IPOB, the governor said, “But some of us do not agree with his (Nnamdi Kanu) style because I do not understand where he is going, when he intends to pull the brakes and when it is going to stop.
If I have a way of conveying my view to the leadership of the group what I will say is they should find the way to enter into conversation and let people know.
“I don’t understand their strategy and purpose.
I don’t understand why they are attacking institutions of civil rule.
A lot of people who are apologetic to some of these strategies don’t even know they are riding the tiger’s tail.
If the police and military withdraw and then brigands become enforcers of the law and order, if you have a quarrel with your brother, how do you resolve it?”
he said.
While demanding a national apology for the treatment meted to the Igbos during the nation’s three-year civil war, Governor Ikpeazu said, “Our national orientation should be willing to say sorry.
No person can be right 100 percent all the days of his life.
Even in dealing with our children if we do things that are not right, we should have the courage to stoop low and say sorry but to create a utopian aura that all is well is either nothing is wrong
or I have done it, what can you do?
“Who is going to tell us what happened during the civil way, who did what and why?
Why can’t some people come and tell us we are very sorry for what we did?
You can’t sweep certain things under the carpet.
“The tension is palpable and this is the time for us to open up as those who love the country.
I speak this way because I spent seven years in the University of Maiduguri.
I have gone through all part of northern Nigeria
and I understand this country.
“I feel sad that the strings that hold us together are gradually giving way.
The NYSC has collapsed.
We have to call a spade a spade no matter whose ox is formed.
Some of the issues raised by Nnamdi were issues of injustice, marginalisation, inequality whether it is gender, generational whatever.
Any particular arm of the society excluded in any way has a right to feel cheated or unwanted.
So, some of those things Nnamdi says are valid.
Some of us can see it.
We cannot continue to run away from the facts.”

El-Zakzaky: Shiites accuse police of harassment, intimidation
The Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) has accused the FCT police command of harassment and intimidation.
The group which protested over the continued detention of its leader, Ibraheem El-Zakzaky at Wuse Market, Abuja, yesterday, alleged that the police threw teargas and shot at the protesters.
A statement signed by Abdullahi Musa, on behalf of the Academic Forum of the IMN,  said the police harassed so many innocent people including passers-by, mostly women while attempting to disperse the protesters.
“We came out as usual on the streets of Abuja calling on the Nigerian authorities to respect the rule of law and free our leader unconditionally and also remind the general public that in 2015 within 48hrs  over 1000 of his followers were mercilessly killed by the officers and soldiers of the Nigerian Army as they officially launched attack on him in his own residence, killing almost every soul in the house and setting their corpses ablaze.
Musa added that the protest started around 3:00pm peacefully from Sky Memorial but just as they were to disperse  at Wuse Market, the police arrived and started shooting teargas and life ammunition on the peaceful and unarmed protesters.
“The police harassed so many innocent people including passeraby mostly women and they removed their hijabs,” he further said.
Reacting, the FCT police command spokesperson, ASP Maryam Yusuf, said the group disturbed public peace with their protest.
“They acted violently, attacking passersby and destroying public property.
They even attacked police officers,” she said.

NAPTIP arraigns suspect, reunites 5 trafficked children with parents
The National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) has arraigned one Musa Abdulrahman in court over kidnapping of five children.
NAPTIP, at a press briefing  at the weekend, said Abdulrahman, a 32-year-old man,  allegedly abducted the children aged four to seven and sold them to unsuspecting women in different parts of the country under the guise of adoption.
The Director General, Mrs. Imaan Sulaiman-Ibrahim, while handing over the children to their parents said, the suspect issued the would be parents adoption papers purportedly from the Niger State Government.
“But luck ran out on the suspect when a sting operation was carried out by the operatives of the agency.
He was caught red handed while helping some “clients’’ fill their adoption application forms,” she said.
She warned parents to guard their children to avoid incidences of kidnapping, trafficking and other crimes against humanity, adding that they should not expose them to criminally mind people.
She said the surveillance followed an intelligence report that Abdulrahman  kidnapped children from Niger State and sold them to in different parts of the country.
The DG also said the intelligence report revealed that the suspect had been doing that claiming to be a staff of the Ministry of Social Development of Niger State in charge of adoption matters.
She said Abdulrahman confessed that he collected the sum of N100,000 for each of the children.
The parents have lauded the federal government and NAPTIP management for rescuing their children and promised to take adequate care of them.

N10bn fraud: ‘Don’t witch-hunt our members’, PDP governors warn EFCC
Governors elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have warned the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) against witch-hunting its party officials.
The governors were responding to the invitation of three officials of the party by the antigraft agency over alleged misappropriation of N10 billion, which the Secondus-led National Working Committee (NWC) had already denied.
The forum, in a statement by its Director-General, Hon CID Maduabum, said the invitation of the officials over a ‘spurious’ petition by a disgruntled former member of PDP raised questions on the seriousness and impartiality of the anti-graft agency to do its work.
The statement read: “While PDP as a political party is accountable to its members and the general public for its actions, we are, however, concerned that the old tactics of using the EFCC to silence political opposition is creeping into our polity once again.
“We had expected that the EFCC under new leadership will learn from the mistakes of its predecessors.
“It is a misplaced priority for EFCC to abandon revelations of monumental fraud by various officials and agencies of the Federal Government to pursue the PDP which is the main opposition party doing a yeoman’s job of preventing the descent into chaos and anarchy in Nigeria.
“Perhaps certain interests in government are worried about the increasingly assertive role the PDP is playing in calling out corruption in government and wants to weaken and silence it.
“Even the petition in question did not make a single allegation of misuse of government funds, or cheating of any individual or public authority by the PDP.
“It is therefore surprising that EFCC should use its scarce human and other resources to begin an investigation into PDP finances.
“If EFCC is even-handed and non-partisan, it should also conduct an investigation into other political parties including APC, the ruling party.
“PDP is up to date in making financial returns as required by the Constitution to INEC
and we are not aware that INEC made any complaints to EFCC on PDP’s returns.
“The times are really perilous.
We face existential threats as a nation and PDP shouldn’t be distracted from its main role as a political watchdog on behalf of Nigerians”.

Kaduna senator urges effective policy implementation on children’s education
The Senator representing Kaduna Central, Uba Sani, has lamented that children are the hardest hit of the country’s recurring economic and security challenges.
In a Children’s Day message, Sani noted that children have been subjected to unbelievable deprivations due to the insecurity bedeviling many communities.
“Some of them are stuck in Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) Camps.
Their education has suffered.
Most of them have little or no access to healthcare.
There is no recreation for them.”
“The girls are sometimes subjected to abuses.
They live in fear of the unknown.
Let us therefore reflect on our children’s loss of innocence and our duties and obligations as leaders and as a people.
“Most of them died due to lack of health care.
The economic impact of COVID-19 on their parents affected children in a very negative way.
Quality of their feeding dropped and some of them were withdrawn from schools,” he said.
The lawmaker therefore called for effective implementation of policies and programmes aimed at providing quality education and healthcare to children.
“Investment in our children is investment in the future of our country.
We must not fail in this regard,” he added.

South-east, insurgency and the coming refugee crisis
By Fredrick Nwabufo
What fuels an insurgency?
The combustible mixture of ideology and ignorance.
If a clump of uninformed people has an ideology they can die for, they will do the illogical for it.
The intercourse of ideology and ignorance does not follow logic.
Insurgency ignites and thrives in the residence of seductive dogma.
The Igbo hold life dear.
The sacrality of life is ensconced in Igbo cosmology. ‘’Igbu ochu’’
(murder) is considered the most deadly sin in Igbo land.
In fact, in the old days where murder is committed, the community will have to proceed on many days of cleansing of the land and atonement for the crime.
But what changed?
It is also popularly assumed that the Igbo are natively non-belligerent and that they cannot in any circumstances resort to taking innocent lives violently.
Really, the Igbo are a peaceful people, but recent events in the south-east have cast a doubt on this assumption.
Without a doubt, there are genuine grievances regarding the south-east and national government relationship, but these grievances, whether injustice or inequality, are not circumscribed to the south-east.
Every Nigerian is aggrieved.
Every region — north, south-west, south-south — has a bone to pick with the leadership.
All the regions in the country are marginalised as regards the equitable distribution of resources to the people.
To put it clearly, every region is marginalised.
But a more factual statement will be ‘’all Nigerians at the bottom rung of the social ladder are marginalised’’.
Nigerians are victims of the carnivory of the elite.
It does not matter whether they come from the north or the south.
We are all victims of elite conspiracy regardless of where we come from.
It is agonising that the scions of the south-east are turning their region into Aleppo in Syria.
Who brings violence and war to his own home?
As of 2019, the south-east was reputed to be the safest region in Nigeria.
It was also buoyant and fared well on the development index.
All of that is tumbling down.
The killing of police officers — some of them Igbo — the targeting of northern residents; the destruction of property and arsoning of police stations are tragedies that should have never been allowed to happen.
This cancer was fed and allowed to metastasise.
The Igbo nourished this beast that is now gnawing at their groin.
When the serial murder of police officers began, some applauded the effort of their killers on the inscrutable assumption that the police are in cahoots with criminals to destroy Igbo land.
Now, the destruction of the region is not by the hands of some herdsmen or bandits, but by the might of the sons of the land.
How is irony defined?
Igbo citizens who hold contrary opinions to the ‘’group sentiments’’ are threatened with violence.
This puts a disturbing aspect to the secessionist agitations – if all views must be unitary.
The Igbo have never been known to be herded or conscripted into a tyranny of opinions and actions.
The Igbo are known to be republican; open to robust arguments and subjecting every thought to scrutiny.
But what changed?
The killing of police officers in the south-east has been unmitigated and security agencies appear to have left the people to their own fate.
Armed robberies have returned at scale.
There are lamentations everywhere.
A lady shared an experience of how a mechanic she paid upfront to fix her car in Anambra absconded with the money and automobile, and even threatened her while bragging, ‘’there is no more police in the south-east’’.
Cultists and street lords have assumed control of interest areas in the region.
There is fear and chaos everywhere.
Life has become nasty, brutish and short in a once peaceful region.
As a matter of fact, we are on a familiar path albeit a treacherous one.
The signs are ominous.
A Nigerian born in 2000 can tell how Boko Haram started in the north-east.
Security agents and formations are often the first to be targeted by militant groups.
When they are taken out, the people become defenceless and a new order of violence by armed gangs reigns.
Security operatives are being killed and security facilities destroyed in the south-east now.
After the security scaffold is decimated, innocent residents and even those gloating over the revelry of blood may become the next victims.
Already, there are displaced persons living in IDP camps in parts of Ebonyi state — displaced as a result of internecine clashes among communities.
And with the prevailing savagery by the secessionist group, there is bound to be more refugee problems in the south-east – if the attacks persist.
Where does that leave a people whose preoccupation is buying and selling?
We cannot end this barbarity if we do not agree.
If some choose to keep native sympathies for those taking innocent lives, how then can the bloodletting stop?
It is all in our hands.
Twitter @FredrickNwabufo

Marwa meets IGP, says Buhari demanded mopping up of illicit drugs
President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered the National Drug Law  Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) to mop up all illicit drugs and substances in the country to make Nigeria a drug-safe haven.
The Chairman/Chief Executive, NDLEA, Brig-Gen.
Mohammed Buba Marwa (Retd) said on Wednesday in Abuja when he hosted the acting Inspector General of Police, Alkali Baba Usman.
This is as he urged the police to hand over confiscated drugs and suspects arrested in connection with drug trafficking to the NDLEA for prosecution as it does not fall within Police jurisdiction.
He also said that within three months, the agency seized over two million kgs of assorted drugs valued at N80bn.
According to him, the agency had arrested 2,100 criminals associated with the illicit trade and have secured over 350 convictions so far.
“So far, we know that about 15 million Nigerians use drug, it is a very high number and working on the mandate given to us by the President to mop up all illicit substances and make Nigeria a drug-safe haven, the NDLEA has remained upstanding by radiating up our activities.
“Within three months, we have been able to seize over 2 million kilogrammes  of assorted drugs.
We have seized these drugs to the value of N80bn, we have arrested 2,100 criminals associated with this illicit trade and have secured over 350 convictions so far.
We are still counting by the grace of God.
“Some of our police officers get involved in seizures of drugs which is quite okay.
But they should hand over to NDLEA after that.
A few actually proceed with prosecuting those cases, they ought not since it is NDLEA’s charge,” Marwa said.
While seeking the collaboration of the police in the next phase of flushing out drug barons, he expressed optimism that more of these barons are going to come into the agency’s net.
“We believe the NPF will support us with intelligence tracking, these are probabilities that the NPF has.
We will ask for slots in the Police institutes so that we will be beneficiaries.
We should appoint liaison officers between us to ensure definite contact.
“We need renewed collaboration between us because the use of drugs is now confirmed as a major precursor to criminal activities in Nigeria.
Bandits, terrorists and kidnappers all use drug first to give them false courage, fearlessness and  capacity, and tirelessness to go and ravage communities everywhere.
This is really the time for more collaboration,” Marwa said.
Speaking earlier, the acting IGP recalled that he was Borno State Police Public Relations Officer at the time
Marwa was Military Administrator.
He said, “Anytime, 24/7, we are ready to collaborate with you.
Experience is the best teacher, you have been in the business of crime prevention and control.
We know your records in sanitizing where senseless things are involved.
We are here to declare to you my unalloyed cooperation and collaboration.
“We are going to collaborate and synergize with the agency in order to police this country.
Behind every crime, there is always the issue of drugs.
“If we synergize, cooperate and collaborate, it would be very beneficial to Nigerians and law enforcement as a whole,” Usman said.

My victory ended godfatherism in Edo — Obaseki
Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki has said his victory at the Supreme Court signals an end to godfatherism in the state.
The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the certificate forgery suit filed against Obaseki by the APC, thereby affirming his victory in the September 19, 2020 governorship election in the state.
Addressing party supporters at the Benin airport yesterday, Obaseki said his victory also meant freedom for Edo people.
“For us in Edo, this victory means freedom and emancipation; it means that we must rededicate ourselves to our people because democracy is all about the people.
“Democracy is not about an individual or godfather.
We have defeated the godfather finally in Edo, in our quest to take Edo to where it should be,” he said.
According to him, they have gone through many hurdles in the last two or three years in the effort to reposition the politics of the state.
On the congratulatory messages by the candidate of the APC, Osagie Ize-Iyamu and a former national chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole to him, Obaseki said he was yet to receive original copies of the letters signed by the duo.

INEC to create 3,148 new polling units in Kano
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Saturday said it will convert the 3,148 Voting Points (VPs) in Kano State to full-fledged Polling Units (PUs).
The commission’s Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the state, Professor Riskwa A. Shehu, disclosed this in Kano during a stakeholders’ meeting organised on expanding voter access to PUs in the state.
He said the decision was to help decongest PUs and to give voters a healthy environment to exercise their civic responsibilities during elections.
Prof Shehu said, “There are over five million registered voters in Kano State, with 8,074 PUs and 3,148 VPs.
“As part of our reforms, INEC came up with the mandate of expanding voter access to PUs, and the committee has already recommended converting all these VPs to stand-alone PUs.
“If approved, Kano will now have a total of 11,222 PUs.
“INEC has created Voting Points, Baby Polling Units and Voting Polling Settlements in PUs with more than 500 voters, but that has still not solved the hardships voters face on election days,” he said.
The INEC REC said all the new PUs would be stationed in public places, adding that none will be situated in individual residences, palaces, houses of politicians or places of worship.
Also speaking, the INEC National Commissioner, Information and Voter Education, Barrister Festus Okoye, said the increase became necessary considering the population explosion, movement of people as well as evolving of new settlements and the commission’s need to be more inclusive and consultative.
Okoye said, “The last time INEC created new PUs was in 1996 when we had only 50 million registered voters.
But, as of 2019, the number has exponentially grown to over 84 million.
“This action will seriously decongest our PUs, improve their health and safety and also address the problem of continuous decline in voters turnout during elections.
He, however, clarified that the exercise is not in any way going to add any number to registered voters in each state.
The INEC Commissioner also said, with the Continuous Voter Registration Exercise slated to resume on June 28, the commission had introduced an innovation where voters who are technology-savvy could begin their registration online, then proceed to their respective registration areas to have their biometrics and pictures captured.
This, according to him, is to further decongest the centres as well as make the process easier.
Daily Trust reports that the meeting had in attendance representatives of political parties in the state, heads of all security agencies in the state, traditional and religious leaders and non-governmental organisations.

FCT primaries: Yahaya Bello heads 7-member APC peace panel
As part of the processes of nomination of the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates for the forthcoming Federal Capital Territory (FCT)
Area Council elections, the party has constituted a 7-man peace panel.
Secretary of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe, in a statement Sunday said the committee is expected to “identify persons who may have taken issues with the conduct of the exercise(s), the issues in contention (if any) and take practical steps to conciliate and harmonise all such persons and issues in time for a satisfactory outcome in the FCT Area Council elections.”

2023: Political parties worry over rising insecurity
The United Political Parties for Good Governance (UPPG), an umbrella organisation of some registered political parties in Nigeria has expressed worry over the spate of insecurity across the country as the 2023 elections approach.
According to the group, the worsening insecurity situation raised concerns and doubt in the minds of many about the future unity and survival of a corporate Nigeria.
The National Secretary of UPPG, Ahmed Tijjani Mustapha, who is also the Deputy National Chairman, All Grand Alliance Party (AGAP), stated this in Kaduna.
Mustapha noted a recent statement by Senator Ali Ndume where the lawmaker said Nigerian troops lacked equipment and operational funds to tackle the multifarious security challenges, and called on government to probe money released for the purchase of arms from 2008 to date.
He said the primary essence of government is to ensure security of lives and property of citizens adding that in Nigeria today, no part of the country subsists without one form of security challenge or the other.

Dare bags ANOCA’s Sports Administrator Award
Minister of sports, Sunday Dare, has been honoured by the Association of National Olympics Committees of Africa with the Highest Order of Sports Administrator Award.
ANOCA president, Mr. Mustapha Berraf who conferred the award on him yesterday in Abuja said it is for the Minister’s immense contributions to the growth of the Olympics Movement and sports in Africa.
He said” ANOCA is happy with the role you played in ensuring the completion of our headquarters in Abuja.
We are very proud of all that you have done for sports Development in Nigeria and Africa.
“We, hereby, present this award to you for your great work and contributions to sports Development.
We are very proud of you and look forward to an enduring relationship for the future of our sports”
Responding, Dare said “Thanks for this honour and award which is quite special.
When I met you in Morocco a few months after assuming office, the chemistry was spontaneous because of our love for sports Development in Africa.
“We sincerely thank the IOC President and yourself for the role you played  in making Nigeria the Olympics  Capital of  Africa.
Thank you so much for the partnership you offer us.”

Man United and Villarreal reach Europa League final
Manchester United and Villarreal will face off in the Europa League final after completing respective last-four wins over Roma and Arsenal on Thursday.
United went through to the May 26 showdown in Gdansk 8-5 on aggregate despite a 3-2 defeat in Rome.
United extinguished any faint hope of a turnaround in the Italian capital when Cavani extended their lead (39) but quickfire second-half goals from Edin Dzeko (57) and Bryan Cristante (60) put Roma in front.
Cavani notched his second of the night with a trademark header (68) before 19-year-old Nicola Zalewski settled the game on the night to cap an entertaining second leg – but United progress to their eighth European final.
Meanwhile, Villarreal held on to their 2-1 first-leg lead to get past the Gunners at the Emirates Stadium.
The Spanish side protected their first-leg advantage with a disciplined display, riding their luck at times with Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang twice hitting the post for the hosts.
Villarreal survived five minutes of stoppage time as Arsenal tried in vain to keep their season alive, celebrating wildly at the end as the club reached their first European final.
Villarreal take on Manchester United in the final in Gdansk later this month.

We achieved more in 6yrs than PDP’s 16yrs in power – APC leaders
Some leaders of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) say the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government has recorded more achievements within six years than the previous governments under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) between 1999 and 2015.
This is contained in a statement signed by a former National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Mr. Lanre Issa-Onilu, who is the current Chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), Salihu Mohammed Lukman; the Senior Special Assistant on National Social Investment Programme to President Buhari, Barr.
Ismail Ahmed and the Special Assistant on Digital/New Media to Buhari, Mr. Tolu Ogunlesi.
The APC stalwarts, who announced the commencement of a national campaign to promote initiatives of President Buhari ahead of the 2023 general election, said the aim is to present the achievements with facts and empirical evidences.
“As committed members of the APC, we are convinced that since May 29, 2015, when the government of President Muhammadu Buhari was inaugurated, landmark initiatives have been and are being implemented.
“In comparative terms, President Buhari’s government has recorded more achievements within six years than all the previous governments under the PDP between 1999 and 2015.
“We intend to present these achievements with facts and empirical evidences.
“On weekly basis, we will invite Nigerians to engage the issues based on specific highlights of work being executed.
“In particular, we will invite all committed party members to participate in the campaign.
“We will also invite opposition parties, especially the PDP to engage the issues by presenting especially what they comparatively were able to achieve when they were in power or in states where they control,” they said.
The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, his deputy, Diran Odeyemi and another top party man were not available for comments.

Govts urged on roads, others for housing projects
A land developer and Chief Executive Officer of Perfect Estate Developers Limited, Arch.
Dayo Babatunde, has urged governments to deepen the provision of infrastructure to enable estate developers to deliver more housing projects.
Speaking with pressmen in Abuja, the real estate developer said such infrastructures like road, drainage, electricity and water supply, open up sites where developers can leverage to make houses available and affordable for Nigerians.
He also said it was important for the government to own such infrastructures as politicians often lay claim to them.
Babatunde cited a case of an access road in Kuje town in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) which is being taunted as a political achievement.
He however said his firm built the road for N200 million to connect the 600 unit Perfect Estate in the area.
And the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) project was done after a futile effort to get the government to do it.
The housing developer lamented the high cost of providing infrastructure by the private sector to aid urban development.
“The financial aspect is a challenge.
Out of what we are using to do the project, we are also taking a large chunk of funds for the road.
Without a good access road, you discover that marketing an estate becomes a big challenge.
So we are also under pressure to make the road a reality while also building the houses,” Babatunde said.

Seven issues that will make or mar Nigeria to 2023 (I)
Buffeted by deep-seated existential challenges which the leadership has proved incapable of tackling, many are coming to the belief that Nigeria’s future survival as a country is not certain.
The signs certainly are there clearly manifested in all facets of life; large swathes of the country are now under the control of non-state actors, a shrinking economy characterised rising inflation and poverty, and social sectors in free falling collapse.
But the most dangerous of all is the growing lack of trust between the leadership and the led as well as among the various ethnic groups and social classes making up the country.
That Nigeria is currently hurtling towards a decisive defining moment in its existence as a country cannot be denied.
To be sure, there is no country that is immune from challenges at whatever period of its existence.
But the difference between success and failure to manage these challenges lies mainly with the leadership and how it copes with the issues of governance that come up from time to time in the life of a nation.
In this regard, looking at the degenerating situation in Nigeria across all facets of our life, the abject failure of leadership at all levels to engender confidence in their ability to come to grips with the deep challenges facing the country is glaring.
Hence the dangerous but understandable doubts among a growing number of Nigerians that the country’s future existence is uncertain.
This feeling is gaining greater traction as we inch towards the next circle of elections in 2023 which many believe might be more problematic than the previous ones.
Proceeding from the principle that a problem identified is a problem almost solved, I have identified seven major issues confronting the country not necessarily by pecking order, which require urgent attention, failing which may finally tip the country into the abyss.
The Fulani question is one of the raging issues in the country which requires a nuanced perspective and approach.
It is not just about the frequently reported cases of clashes between Fulani herders and farmers in the country or the seeming ambivalence and even mutual antagonism between sedentary Fulanis and their nomadic kith and kin.
It is more to do with the place of the Fulani in the historical, political and social evolution of Nigeria.
In many ways, Nigeria can be described as a joint legacy of nineteenth century Fulani Jihadist Sheikh Usman dan Fodio, and Sir Frederick Lugard, the architect of amalgamation and first British colonial Governor-General of Nigeria.
Sheikh dan Fodio
it was who first established the Fulani hegemony over an area roughly the size of two-thirds of Northern Nigeria through the Fulani
led Jihad of 1804.
It was on the political and social structure of this dan Fodio creation that the Britons built their colonial enterprise in Nigeria, a legacy that subsists to a large extent to this day.
As a group, the Fulani are the single most powerful and influential factor in Nigerian politics.
They control one half of the traditional/spiritual realm through the Islamic religion as well as the temporal turf of Nigerian politics and governance.
That the Fulani have deployed this unique advantage in the struggle for the control of the soul of Nigerian politics opens them to accusation with some reason of wanting to perpetually control political power in the country to the exclusion and detriment of other ethnic groups.
It is pointed out, with some justification too, that because this control and dominance work to their advantage, Fulani political aristocracy always works against the attempts by other ethnic groups for the enthronement of a just, equitable and inclusive Nigeria for all.
Although this accusation against the Fulani has been on for years now, at no time has it become more pronounced than in the present time under the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari who happens to be a Fulani man.
Although some will dismiss this as part of the stuff of politics in Nigeria, the claim that Fulani wield and retain a disproportionate slice of political power to the detriment and exclusion of others is not totally unfounded, nor is it untrue that the Fulani political aristocracy has sought to perpetuate this control through a subtle agenda of exclusive empowerment and appointment into the strategic areas of the country’s polity and economy.
This fulanisation agenda has predictably turned the other ethnic groups including even the closest, the Hausa, against the Fulani especially as the latter are fingered as being responsible for the banditry, kidnapping and other violent crimes in the North west of the country.
In the current situation that Nigeria finds itself, it is no longer feasible for the Fulani to continue to exercise the skewered and disproportionate control of political power.
This not only creates a dangerous imbalance in the polity; it also fosters a feeling and tendency by politically excluded ethnic groups to seek ways of disrupting the polity as we are having it now.
For Nigeria to get out of the dangerous quagmire of uncertainty currently building up, we must address the issue of a skewered political and economic control of Nigeria exercised by the powerful and influential ethnic groups to the exclusion of others.
Another issue that hangs around Nigerian politics and governance like an albatross has to do with our dangerous attachments to ethnic and religious leanings and seeking to interpret everything in our country along those lines.
We are not Nigerians in the true sense of the word.
Our sense of ourselves as Nigerians is defined to a large extent only by the geographical area covering the country rather than by shared values and identities.
We identify ourselves more from our ethnic and religious perspective at the expense of the Nigeria we all belong.
The proclivity to play the ethnic and religious card has become so pervasively self-perpetuating that where it is not even necessary, we try to invoke it just to assure ourselves that this is the normal thing to do.
If the ethnic card does not apply, we reach for the religious card and where the religious card does not, we apply the ethnic card.
We have come to believe so much in these factors as a yardstick for just about everything we do that, like an addict hooked on the self-deceiving exhilaration of the substance, we just cannot muster the courage to kick the habit even as we know how injurious it is to our body politic.
(To be continued)

Swiatek to face ex-champ Pliskova in Rome final
French Open champion Iga Swiatek warned she was “ready for anyone” as she takes on former winner Karolina Pliskova in the Italian Open final on Sunday.
Ex-world
No
1 Pliskova saw off Croatia
’s Petra Martic 6-1, 3-6, 6-2 to return to the final of a tournament she won in 2019 and finished runner-up last year.
Ninth seed Pliskova is the only top 10 player remaining but faces a battle with 19-year-old Swiatek, who continued her Roland Garros warm-up with back-to-back wins on Saturday.
Swiatek first ousted fifth seed Elina Svitolina, a two-time Rome winner, 6-2, 7-5 in 1hr 36min in their quarterfinal match which had been pushed back from Friday because of rain.
She then saw off 17-year-old American Coco Gauff 7-6 (7/3), 6-3 in the semifinals in 1hr 45min.
“I knew it was going to be tough,” said the 15th-seed of her marathon day.
“I played with no expectations.
I was taking it step by step.
“Beating Elina shows that my game is here, I’m ready for anyone.
It really gave me a confidence boost.
“If my game is going to be there tomorrow, I can do anything.”

Politicians with analogue ideas should not rule Nigeria again — Sowore
A former presidential aspirant of the African Action Congress (AAC), Omoyele Sowore, said the inability of President Muhammadu Buhari to meet up with his campaign promises to make Nigeria a better nation is a wake-up call to stop electing leaders with analogue ideas.
Sowore, during the 3rd NEC meeting of AAC in Abuja, said the president’s inaction while the security situation of the country persisted indicated that he lacked novel ideas to confront the situation facing the country.
“For the progress of the country, people with absolutely old and analogue ideas cannot continue to run a digital country like Nigeria.
Nigeria is going down in the hands of incompetent leaders that have no compassion for its citizenry and refused to deliver on their duties,” he said

No public access to Capitol grounds during Biden inauguration – Police
There will be no public access to the Capitol grounds during Joe Biden’s inauguration as U.S. president on Jan. 20, acting Capitol Police chief Yogananda Pittman said.
Pittman took over the leadership from Steven Sund after he stepped down amid criticism of the force’s handling of rioters who breached the Capitol building last week.
She said law enforcement from the federal, state and local levels were working together and comprehensive, coordinated plans were in place to ensure safety.
Several police officers have been suspended as investigations into the January 6 riot continue, she said.
(dpa/NAN)

Why Zuba fruit market needs urgent intervention
For traders and farmers of fruits and vegetables in the country, the Zuba ‘international’ market, as it is called, is a major selling hub.
The market serves not only the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) but neighbouring states as well.
No doubt, the market is a source of income for thousands of people, mostly women and young ones trading in fresh produce in and around Abuja, the nation’s capital.
Hundreds of tonnes of fruits like oranges, pawpaw, banana, plantain, pineapple, coconut, watermelon and others, as well as vegetables, make it to the market daily.
Our reporter who visited the market on Tuesday witnessed increased activities around imported apple and coconut businesses as a major wholesale ground for retailers.
Over 70 per cent of the fruits consumed in the FCT and neighbouring states come from this market, where thousands congregate as early as 5am every day to do business.
Tonnes of plantain displayed for sale in the market on Tuesday.
However, despite the huge potentials of the market to strengthen the horticultural business locally and internationally, there are challenges that have remained for many years.
The market is still very much unorganized, and the fruits are mostly placed on dirty grounds, raising serious public health concern, especially as the country joins the rest of the world to combat the COVID-19 pandemic.
Also, fresh fruits share common ground with rotten ones and wastages that are already infested with germs and diseases.
Dusts from thousands of legs walking around the filthy environment also expose many people to germs, making them vulnerable to diseases.
Again, the absence of necessary infrastructures like cold rooms, good road network, water, standard shops, clean ground facilities for placing fruits, and a host of other factors heighten major safety concern and place everyone eating fruits in Abuja and its environs at high risk.
But despite these challenges, activities in the market put money in the pockets of many and generate revenue for the government too.
Our reporter spoke to a number of farmers and dealers who have been doing business in the area for many years.
Tarsoo Alex, who has orange orchards in Vandikya, Benue State, said he supplied over 60 bags of oranges to the market on Tuesday.
But he lost about five bags to excessive heat, occasioned by scorching sun.
He was afraid that if buyers did not come early, he could lose more.
According to him, a bag of oranges costs between N6,000 and N7,500, but his income is significantly reduced by huge cost of transportation from his farm in Benue to Zuba.
To address the issue of wastages, he said many of the farmers were embracing jute bags, which allow air to penetrate instead of polythene bags that generate excessive heat for the fruits.
Unlike oranges, plantains are everywhere now because this is its season, a young man who preferred to be simply called Pastor told our reporter.
He said that before noon, all the plantains would have been bought.
He helps farmers to sell their produce.
It is usually sold in dozens (12 bunches), which cost between N5,000 and N8,000, depending on the size of the bunches on each unit of 12.
Watermelons are sorted as grades 1, 2 and 3, with 50 pieces in each dozen.
Their prices also depend on grades, with the least costing as low as N9,000.
Regular customers can get lower prices.
The same selling pattern goes for pawpaw and pineapples, but coconut is sold in bags while apples are graded and sold in cartons.
In 2018, Daily Trust on Sunday uncovered a massive use of carbide to ripen fruits in the market, which health experts said could cause cancer.
The report eventually led to a crackdown on perpetrators by the market union leaders through their task force.
Our reporter observed a significant improvement as the chemical is no longer seen to be used as was the previous practice.
But there’s the need to protect the health of consumers who patronise the market.

Sultan asks Nigerians to stop blaming military for Constitutional crisis
Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, the Sultan of Sokoto, has asked Nigerians to stop blaming the military for constitutional crisis.
Social commentators, activists, government critics, among many others have at different times identified what they consider as gaps in the constitution, attributing the development to the military.
In his remarks at the North West Zonal Public Hearing on the Constitution Review organised by the House of Representatives for Stakeholders from Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara, the monarch advised Nigerians to “face the reality” and suggest whether to have a new constitution or amend the current one before the 2023 general elections.
“Please, stop flogging the military, forget about what the military did and face the reality on ground.”
“We have the constitution given to us by the military and the military made the constitution; the military also created 36 states, created Abuja and moved the capital from Lagos State to Abuja.
“The military had set up governments in so many states with the appointment of 99 per cent civilians in the government and all of you agreed to it.
“So, stop flogging the military, look at the constitution, if it is good for us or not; that is all.
If you think we need to change the constitution, this is the time.
If you think we need to just amend it, this is the time; but it is just two years to 2023 elections.
“Can we afford a new constitution or should we make just some amendments so that when the new governments come in, they can bring fresh faces, minds to fashion our new constitution?
Those are the questions I want you to think about here,” the Sultan told the hearing.
The monarch retired from the Nigerian Army where he rose to the rank of Brigadier General.
(NAN).

2023: PDP, APC bicker over burning of INEC offices
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) are bickering over the burning of offices of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in some parts of the country.
The PDP, in a statement by its spokesperson, Kola Ologbondiyan, alleged that the APC had been promoting acts of violence including the burning of INEC offices to build up an emergency situation and frustrate the smooth conduct of the 2023 general elections.
“It is despicable that having realised that it has no place in the 2023 election, given its abysmal failure in governance, APC leaders are seeking to set our country ablaze and truncate our hard-earned democracy.
“The PDP invites Nigerians to note the failure of the APC and its leaders to forcefully condemn this clear assault on our frontline institution of democracy.
“This is also as the APC administration has failed to take decisive steps to protect INEC facilities from assailants.
“Our party wants the APC to know that May 29, 2023 date is sacrosanct for it to leave office, free our nation from its stranglehold and fizzle out from our political firmament,” it stated.
Reacting, APC in a statement by Secretary of the Caretaker Committee, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe alleged that the PDP had undemocratic plans.
The party said using lies and “sponsored media attacks” on the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC government, the PDP has “shown its hands as sponsors behind the politically-motivated attacks on some of our public and democratic institutions in the country, all in a clearly desperate bid to destabilise this government.”
The APC said, “Perhaps, the PDP thinks Nigerians have forgotten its long and documented penchant of eroding and destroying democratic institutions.
“To name one, was it not the same PDP that attempted to discredit INEC and the entire 2019 election with a bogus tale of a server that never existed and employed hackers to disrupt the communication network of the electoral body during the 2019 election?
“The APC cannot be at home and burn its house.
A winner cannot destroy the process that brought it to success.
“From the 2015 to 2019 elections, Nigerians spoke clearly through their votes for the APC by mandating us to rescue the country from the PDPs 16-year misadventure.
“The PDP should address itself to the reality that it stands rejected by the electorate.
Its undemocratic plan is ill-fated and will fail woefully.”

Hawan Daushe: Police use teargas to foil attack in Kano
Swift intervention by the police operatives saved thousands of spectators of Hawan Daushe, a traditional Sallah Durbar, from what would have been a massive attack by a gang of lawless youths in Kano.
The youths in their numbers blocked the road a few meters from Kofar Kudu, the venue of the durbar to launch an attack on the retreating crowd of unsuspecting spectators before the police swiftly intervened by firing teargas.
Thugs pelted stones at the police but they were overpowered before the people were able to pass.
The incidents had trapped many of the durbar spectators at the emir’s palace till about 7 pm.
The incident started immediately after the governor’s convoy had left the emir’s palace after the ceremony.
The gang mobilized and blocked the road to rob the public and cause mayhem in the area.
Hawan Daushe has always been characterized by thugs clashes which usually leave scores injured.
But there was no report of injury from Friday’s incident.
This is the first Sallah durbar organised by the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, since his enthronement last year.
The annual event was cancelled last year as a measure to curb the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in the state.
Friday’s event, which started around 5 pm, witnessed a large turnout from various sections of Kano society.
Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje and many political elites were also in attendance.
The event as usual started from Kofar Kwaru where the emir rode on a horse alongside his royal guards in traditional regalia to Gidan Mai Babban Daki, where he paid Sallah homage to his stepmothers in the stead of his biological mother who passed on, weeks ago.
After the visit to Gidan Mai Babban Daki, the Emir rode back to the palace through Kofar Kudu where he received homage from his district heads and other titleholders in a traditional display of horsemanship before he retreated to the palace thereby drawing the curtain for the famous Hawan Daushe.

Chadian rebels, government forces clash in area where Deby was shot
Government troops and rebels clashed on Thursday in a region of western Chad where president Idriss Deby Itno was killed earlier this month.
The fight in the desert region of Kanem, near Chad’s border with Niger, pits Libya-based rebels against forces loyal to a new military junta led by Deby’s son.
Fiercely criticised for authoritarianism and inequality, Deby was seen as a trusty ally by many Western countries including the former colonial power France.
He was seen as a stabilising force in the fight against jihadism in the wider Sahel region on the southern fringes of the Sahara desert.
“Fighting is continuing in Kanem — we are going to have continue to fight, otherwise they will destabilise us,” junta spokesman General Azem Bermandoa Agouna told AFP.
The Military Transition Council (CMT) is headed by 37-year-old Mahamat Idriss Deby.
For now the fight against the Front for Change and Concord in Chad (FACT), drawn mainly from the Goran ethnic group, is going on about 300 kilometres (180 miles) north of the capital N’Djamena.
Security sources, without giving further details, said the Chadian army bombarded FACT positions.
Deby, 68, died on April 19, from wounds he suffered fighting the Libya-based rebels, according to the authorities.
The insurgents had launched an offensive in the northern Tibesti region on April 11 as presidential elections were unfolding.
A career soldier who seized power in 1990 and exercised it ruthlessly for 30 years, Deby died on the day that the electoral commission confirmed that he had won a landslide victory.
– Hundreds arrested at protests – 
FACT is led by Mahamat Mahadi Ali, a veteran insurgent who previously lived in France.
The group vowed to pursue its offensive after a pause for Deby’s funeral on April 23.
Experts believe FACT has between 1,500 and 2,000 fighters.
The Chadian army claimed on April 19 to have killed 300 rebels and captured 246 others, who were being taken to the capital N’Djamena to stand trial but military casualties have not been made public.
The armed forces recently sent reinforcements to Kanem, security forces said.
On Sunday, the CMT announced there would be no “mediation or negotiation” with FACT and called on Niger to help it capture the group’s chief.
The CMT took over on April 20, immediately after Deby’s death was announced, as parliament and government were dissolved.
It has promised an 18-month transition period before “free and transparent” elections.
At least six people died on Tuesday in banned protests against the junta, according to the authorities, while a local NGO reported nine fatalities.
Prosecutors said Thursday that they were interviewing over 700 people arrested at demonstrations on Tuesday and Wednesday.
Dozens of arrested protesters were brought in police vehicles to the capital’s high court Thursday from different police stations around the city.
“A majority of them have already been through and many have been released,” N’Djamena prosecutor Youssouf Tom told AFP.
On Monday, the military junta appointed Albert Pahimi Padacke as transitional prime minister.
He called for a nationwide effort to speed the return to civilian rule.(AFP)

Politicians urged not to overheat polity over insecurity
A former Deputy National Chairman of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), Alhaji Salihu Mustapha, has urged top politicians to stop making statements that will overheat the polity, ignite crises and plunge Nigeria into another civil war.
Alhaji Mustapha, who is contesting for the chairmanship of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the party’s national convention, in a statement on Sunday, said a united Nigeria should be the concern of all to enable the country to conduct a successful transition in 2023.
He explained that no country survived civil war twice, and therefore appealed to Nigerians to support President Muhammadu Buhari-led government in proffering solutions to the challenges bedevilling the nation.
He said, “I condemn the attempt by some groups and persons to politicise our security challenges.
As Nigerians, we should learn from the ethnic crises in Rwanda and elsewhere.
Violence has never solved any country’s problems.
“War or violence does not recognise religion or tribe.
It is a consuming fire.
It is not a respecter of anybody – the poor or rich, old or young.
“Nigerians who were born after the civil war should learn lessons from Rwanda in 1994.
War is bad, war is evil.
Let us be properly guided.
He that rushes to war or advocates war should know that war brings death and destruction.”

Serena suffers shock loss in historic 1 000th match
Serena Williams, playing the 1 000th Tour-level match of her glittering career, suffered a shock 7-6(6)
7-5 defeat by Argentina’s
Nadia Podoroska in the the Italian Open second round on Wednesday.
Playing her first competitive match in nearly three months, the 23-times Grand Slam champion twice came back from a break down but struggled on her first serve as Podoroska took the opening set in the tiebreak.
Podoroska, who reached the French Open semifinals last year, produced a string of heavy topspin forehands to take control of the match with an early break in the second set.
Although Podoroska was broken to love on her first attempt to serve out the match, she maintained her composure to break again and secure a place in the round of 16.
Defeat for Williams, who received an opening round bye in Rome, was a major blow to her preparations for the French Open, starting on 30 May.
It was the American’s 149th defeat in her 1 000 career WTA matches.
World number two Naomi Osaka also crashed out of the tournament, losing 7-6(2) 6-2 to American Jessica Pegula.
Osaka, a four-times Grand Slam winner, has often struggled on clay and her defeat in Rome followed a second-round loss at the Madrid Open this month.

Man nabbed over threat to employer
The police in Edo State  have arrested a 25-year-old man, identified as  Mike Ashien, for allegedly threatening to  kidnap and murder his employer.
It was gathered that the suspect is an  employee of a domestic oil company located in Ugbogui community, Ovia South-West LG  of the state.
It was further gathered that the suspect hid his phone number and called his employer demanding N10 million from him or have him kidnapped and killed.
It was also gathered that after the threat, his employer reported the matter to the state police Commissioner, Philip Ogbadu,  who ordered an investigation in the matter.
Speaking with journalists, the suspect said pressing family problem forced him into the act.
“My boss pays me N20,000 monthly but  it is not enough for me and l
just threatened him to get more money from him, but I have learnt my lesson and  I am now regretting,” he said.

IAR researches on Tela maize to tackle pests, drought
In 2019, Nigeria joined six other African countries – Kenya, Mozambique, Tanzania, Uganda, South Africa and Ethiopia – to enter into a Tela maize project.
The Tela maize project is a public-private partnership to develop and commercialise the transgenic insect-protected and drought-tolerant maize varieties to boost the farmers’ productivity.
Tela maize is double-dose (moderate drought and insect resistance) maize varieties designed to help farmers have better yields.
At the Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR), Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, a team of scientists are working on the maize varieties to ensure that by 2022, farmers across the country would have access to it after it has gone through all the necessary regulations.
Professor Mohammed Faguji, a seed breeder and the executive director of the IAR, said global warming brought two adverse conditions (drought and flooding), in addition to pests that made farming difficult for many smallholder farmers.
The Tela maize, he said, was to solve those problems.
Daily Trust on Sunday visited the field where the varieties are undergoing confined field trials to evaluate the efficacy and efficiency of the drought and pest-resistant attributes before seeking the approval of the necessary authorities  for environmental release and subsequently, commercialisation, with 2022 as the target year.
Professor Rabiu Adamu is the principal investigator (lead researcher) of the genetically modified Tela maize project.
He told Daily Trust on Sunday at the trial fields in Zaria that the research had two strong aims: to produce transgenic hybrid varieties of maize for the first time in Nigeria
, that are resistant to most maize pests, particularly the major pests of maize, stem borers and the fall army worms, and to produce maize hybrid
that are also tolerant to drought.
“These hybrids are genetically modified, using biotechnology to make them resistant.
So they have a gene from soil-dwelling bacterial that is inserted into the maize gene that compasses resistance to insect pests, especially those that damage maize, that is the fall army worm and the complex of stem borers, which are three: the pink stem borer and the other species the maize stalk-borer -Busseolafusca and Sesamiacalamistis.
These are the two key stem borers of maize in this part of the country.
These hybrids we are testing are genetically modified to resist damage by insect pests, especially stem borers and fall army worms as you have seen in the field,” he explained.
He said the current crop in the field was the third Confined Field Trials (CFT).
‘’We are hoping to environmentally realise these hybrid in Nigerian  fields in other research institutes and some out stations to test them to confirm and validate the implicating of the gene, not only here.
Thereafter, we will write a memo to the regulator to allow us conduct more trails outside the conferment in other farmers’ fields   and other research institutes,’’ he added.
Speaking on when the farmers are likely to get the seeds, he said that after one year when the results are ready, they would submit the dossier to the National Biosafety Management Agency (NBMA) for permission to take it to the  farmers to do national multiplication trails.
Out of the 16 entries, the best performing hybrids selected by the famers will be evaluated and reports submitted to the National Varietal Release Committee in Ibadan.
Once they accept that the varieties have met the minimum requirement for them to be released as hybrid, they can be released to farmers,’’ he said.
The scientists are tentatively looking at December 2022 for its release so that in about three years, farmers everywhere will have access to the seed.
Dr Muhyideen  Oyekunle, the  lead, Trials and Pipeline Testing, who took our reporter around,  explained the biotic and abiotic attributes of the ongoing  progress of the Tela maize research planted in three plots to evaluate the efficacy of the resistance to drought, fall army worm and stem borers.
In the field, there are very clear differences, the non-GM maize, which infected pests almost completely ravaged by the fall army worm, stem borers, whereas the GM varieties were completely untouched even though the two varieties (Tela Maize and the traditional seeds that do not have biotech protection are planted in close proximity) side-by-side.
The ongoing field results as seen by our reporter shows great prospect although the yield remains to be seen and evaluated.
Until then, there is solution to pests and drought problems on sight.
Some of the varieties are yellow but most of them are white, however, in the trials, more than 90 percent are white maize because it is preferred by industry players.
But the scientists’ major challenges are COVID-19 pandemic and the issue of misperception and misinformation about the technology.
“People who don’t know how the technology works like to use the social media and other non-scientific avenues to confuse and mislead the public and other scientists,” the lead researcher, Professor Adamu said.
The Tela maize scheme is a collaboration between the African Agricultural Technology Foundation (AATF) and the IAR under the Tela maize project implemented in seven African countries.
It builds on the success on breeding work under the Water Efficient Maize for Africa (WEMA) project designed “to develop drought-tolerant and insect-protected maize varieties.’’

2023: Middle Belt, southern leaders ask APC, PDP to zone presidential ticket to South
The Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum (SMBLF) has asked the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to zone their 2023 presidential tickets to the South.
The forum also urged the federal government to heed the “genuine and reasonable” nationwide calls for a transparent national dialogue and take urgent steps towards restructuring and birthing a new constitution to bring back “equitable harmony” to the country.
The resolutions were contained in a communique signed by National Leader of the Forum and former minister of Information, Chief Edwin Clark;
Afenifere leader, Chief Ayo Adebanjo; President General of Ohaneze
Ndigbo Worldwide, Prof George Obiozor; National President, Middle Belt  Forum, Dr Pogu Bitrus; and National Chairman, PANDEF, Senator Emmanuel Ebok Essien, among others.
According to the communique, the leaders demanded restructuring of the country before 2023, and asked the federal government to declare a national emergency on security.
The communique reads:
“We insist that it is imperative to immediately restructure the country considering the precarious prevailing atmosphere before any further elections.
“Reminds all leading political parties, especially the APC, PDP and other political parties, that the basis of any viable democracy, especially in a diverse and complex country such as Nigeria, rests in fair and even sharing of power 
“That the Northern part of the country would have fully enjoyed the Office of the Presidency, for the full statutory period of right years by 2023, hence, should yield to the South.
“Enjoins political stakeholders from the South not to be lured into the unpatriotic step of seeking such other positions as national chairmen and vice president of the main political parties, but join forces to demand and ensure that the presidency moves to the South in 2023.
“Emphasises that, if the security situation is not dealt with and banditry stopped or reduced to the barest minimum, it would not be feasible to have proper elections in 2023.
“Insists that cattle rearing is a generally, private business enterprise, as such, the federal government should avoid committing state resources to promote any particular business, beyond providing the enabling environment, in the performance of its regulatory roles.”
The leaders reaffirmed their commitment to the unity of Nigeria, adding that it can only be sustained on the principles of equity, fairness and justice.
But, the Ambassador Aminu Wali-led faction of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kano State has said the North-East should produce the next president.
Chairman of the faction, Mamina Bako Lamido, who spoke on behalf of other executive members said Bala Mohammed was fit for the job.
The PDP faction gave its backing when it received executive members of a group canvassing support for the governor, known as Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed Vanguard (BAM-V), at the party’s secretariat in Kano at the weekend.
Lamido said for fairness and equity, the party should zone its presidential ticket to both North-East and South-East, adding that if the ticket goes to the North-East, Bala Mohammed should be given the mandate.
Speaking earlier, BAM-V Director-General, Mohammed Abubakar Jibo, said the group was at the party’s secretariat to canvass support for Mohammed ahead 2023.

Lagos-Ibadan rail ‘tentatively’ for commissioning June 10 – FG
The Federal Government has fixed June 10 as tentative date for the commissioning of the flagship Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge rail.
Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, announced this during an inspection of the project with the Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, on Sunday.
Mohammed, who spoke briefly with newsmen at the Wole Soyinka Station in Abeokuta, said the inspection on Sunday was to ensure that all the T’s are crossed
and I’s dotted ahead of the commissioning.
Daily Trust had earlier reported how the China Civil Engineering and Construction Corporation (CCECC), the contractor handling the project, has been pressured to deliver all the 10 stations ahead of the commissioning.
The stations are Ebute-Metta, Apapa, Agege, Agbado, Kajola, Papalanto, Abeokuta, Omi Adio, Olodo and Moniya.
Most of the stations have reached are between 90 and 100 percent completion stage.
The Ministers as well as the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Transport, Dr. Magdalene Ajani, Managing Director of the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), Engr.
Fidet Okhiria and other officials of the Ministry started the inspection from the Mobolaji Johnson Station (Ebute-Metta) before heading to the Bola Tinubu Station (Apapa).
The Ebute-Metta Station is the biggest station in the train corridor.
It is reputed to be the most magnificent government building in Nigeria.
According to the Transportation Minister, all the equipment and facilities have been installed ahead of the takeoff of operation.
The Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge rail is the lot 2 of the 2,700km Lagos-Kano standard gauge which construction started in 2017 with extension to Nigeria’s
Premier Ports in Apapa to aid massive cargo movement and decongest the ports.
Mohammed said, “Tentatively, the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge would be commissioned on June 10.
What the Honourable Minister is doing is to ensure that all the I’s are dotted and the T’s are crossed before June 10.
“You can see right from Apapa to Agege, Papalanto to this place, you have seen us go down to engage the contractor to ensure that everything is in order.
“Because this is one of the flagships of this administration, one of the landmark achievements of this administration.
“Not only this is the first time we are having a dual standard gauge but you can see the passion by which the Minister supervises the project.”

Gunmen shoot herbalist, abduct two women
Gunmen believed to be kidnappers have shot a popular alternative medicine producer, Alhaji Laminu Jibrin, after attacking his home located in Tafa town along Abuja-Kaduna highway, in Kaduna State.
The attackers, said to be about 20 in number, stormed into the man’s residence around 1:00 am on Monday, after forcing its gate open.
A resident, who sought anonymity, said the attackers met the herbalist packaging some herbal products and mistook him for a worker of the company.
“Some of them beat his wife up just as they were asking her of his whereabouts,” the source said.
It was further learnt that the man had retaliated with a stick in his possession against the gunmen, who responded with the shooting that injured him on his shoulder.
The man’s wife, and another woman among his neighbours, were abducted later by the gunmen, just as he was taken to an undisclosed hospital along with his little child, who was hit on his abdomen by a bullet, where they were receiving medical attention.
Efforts to speak to the police area commander in Jere,
ACP Faruk Umar, were not successful, as he did not respond to the phone calls from our reporter.

Poultry feed crisis: Why more interventions are needed
The crisis in the feed industry hit its peak late last year when many poultry farmers started shutting down their farms due to a jump in operation cost, mainly caused by the high cost of feeds.
The leadership of the Poultry Association of Nigeria, an umbrella body of poultry farmers in the country, held an emergency meeting in Abuja, warning that if something urgent was not done, the poultry industry might fold up.
The director-general of the association, Onallo S. Akpa, while calling for immediate intervention by the federal government, raised an alarm that maize that cost N80,000 per ton and soybeans N120,000 per ton in January 2020, cost N200,000 per ton (maize) and N250 per ton
(soybeans) as of January 2021.
Apparently, in a move to avert a crisis in the feed value chain, the Central Bank of Nigeria quickly moved in by agreeing to release, in tranches, about 300,000 metric tons of maize to the industry.
The gesture, which the stakeholders believe was timely, seems to have reduced tension in the sector.
The target, according to the bank, is to ensure the poultry industry’s sustainability, job retention, circular flow of income, cheaper nutrition and poverty alleviation.
Last month, about 50,000MT was said to have been allocated to stakeholders in the feed milling industry, with others set to be released in due course.
Stakeholders believe the quick release of the remaining tonnages will further redress the feed challenges in the sector ahead of the forthcoming Easter celebration.
The ongoing intervention is being executed in collaboration with players like AFEX Commodities Exchange Ltd, which are facilitating the release of the grains.
The shortfall in maize production has been one of the major challenges in the agricultural sector as according to the PAN DG, the produce is the most highly consumed in northern Nigeria.
This is why many feed producers and other stakeholders are advocating for more interventions by the apex bank in the area of maize and soybeans production.
The General Manager of Premier Feeds Ltd, Austin Daylop, a beneficiary of the intervention, noted that as the new farming season for maize and soybean approaches, decisive actions needed to be taken to meet the demands of the growing population and prevent Nigeria from getting into a cycle of shortfalls.
“The Anchor Borrowers’ Programme by CBN in partnership with the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN) is one such solution.
A similar scheme should also be introduced for maize and soybean production.
“It will definitely help to mitigate rural-urban migration by the farmers brought on by the insecurity challenges, especially in the Northern states where maize and soybeans are cultivated.
“Continuing the collaborative partnerships between the relevant government authorities and industry stakeholders such as the Maize Growers Association of Nigeria (MAGPAMAN) and Poultry Association of Nigeria (PAN) will help to provide critical field data so that policymakers can understand the input required to expand the yield capacity of local farmers,’’ he said.
Ayodeji Balogun, CEO, AFEX, said: “By facilitating the release of the 300,000MT maize, leveraging support from credible players in the ecosystem, including our team at AFEX, the CBN will offer over 35,000 farmers and agro-processors a channel through which they can trade maize at a subsidized rate, and thereby reduce the adverse effect of the maize price hike, increase local demand and also improve farmers’ livelihoods.’’

Oil prices fall on demand, COVID-19 concerns
Oil prices edged lower on Monday as climbing Coronavirus cases and tighter restrictions in Europe and China fueled worries over a slower recovery in fuel demand.
Encouraging gross domestic product (GDP) and industrial production data from China helped to limit the downside to some extent.
Brent crude for March delivery eased 0.2 per cent to 54.98 dollars a barrel, after falling 2.3 per cent on Friday.
Similarly, U.S. oil futures were down by 0.1 per cent at 52.36 dollars after falling more than 2 per cent in the previous session.
The total number of global Coronavirus cases topped 95 million, while the death toll surpassed 2 million.
China reported more than 100 new COVID-19 cases for the sixth consecutive day, while the number of hospitalised COVID-19 patients with serious symptoms in Japan topped 970, marking a record high since the onset of the pandemic in the country.
Portugal imposed a new nationwide lockdown, while the British government announced that it will close all travel corridors from Momday in order to restrict the spread of new Coronavirus variant cases.
New Coronavirus infections have been decreasing in Germany but the country’s health minister said that more needed to be done to bring it permanently under control.
Chancellor Angela Merkel and Germany’s 16 state premiers will discuss what to do next on Tuesday.
(dpa/NAN)

Ratels Sports Foundation partners MGGN to empower the girl-child
Ratels Sports Foundation has partnered organisers of the Most Gorgeous Girl Nigeria, MGGN, to host a Women mini football tournament in Abuja to celebrate the first edition of the beauty pageant which will hold in the city of Abuja.
Grace Ene, who is the Chief Executive Officer of  MGGN, organisers of the beauty pageant , said Barrister Paul Edeh’s Ratel Sports Foundation, has agreed to partner with the initiative through the mini tourney which is aimed at creating more awareness, empowerment and hope for the girl-child.
She said “We are glad about this initiative and partnering with one of the leading Sports Foundations in the country, Ratels Sports Development Foundation.
“Through this event, we have been able to share the belief that the girl-child deserves more in our community and with Ratels’ support, we are hopeful that it will create more love and awareness across all quarters.”
On his part, the founder of Ratels Sports Foundation, Barrister Edeh, said, “Today’s event is unique because we are doing it in partnership with a new brand that is in town, the Most Gorgeous Girl Nigeria, which is a beauty pageant.
“They were able to identify areas that we are inclined to support.
These are areas that we are happy to invest in.
“Today we have four teams all based in Abuja playing in this tournament and as you can see, they played good football even in the rain.
Edeh also spoke on the financial implication as he said the four teams were supported to participate in the epoch making event.
“It may interest you to know that this mini tournament cost us some money because the girls had to play like eight matches within the space of four hours.
“We paid match indemnities, fed and transported the teams and of course we gave quality footballs to them,” he said.

15 arrested for killing 706 cows, 75 sheep in Kaduna community
Fifteen suspects have been arrested by police in Kaduna State for allegedly killing 706 cows and 75 sheep in Atyap chiefdom of Zangon Kataf Local Government Area (LGA), Kaduna State.
The suspects are said to have dumped the animals in a ditch.
The Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Muhammad Jalige, in a statement, expressed concern about the nature of crime which he said was “perpetrated by agents of doom in their quest to set the state ablaze.”
He noted that the command cannot hold back and watch criminals take laws into their hands, noting that the command is not leaving anything to chance in ensuring that thorough investigation is carried out to prevent future occurrence of such dastardly act.
He added, “On 24th March, 2021 at about 10:00am
some herdsmen reported at Divisional Police Headquarters Zonkwa, Kaduna, that some uncertain number of persons had attacked some of their herds killing 706 cows and 75 sheep and dumped them in a ditch.
“On getting the complaint, operatives immediately swung into action, visited the scene of the incident, took necessary photographs and expanded their investigation which led to the arrest of 15 within the following villages; Mate, Unguwan Tabo, Unguwan Rohogu, Runji, Mashan, Mashan Daji and Wawan Rafi all of Atyap chiefdom in Zangon Kataf LGA Kaduna state.”

Enugu Police arrest suspected rail track vandal, recover firearm, others
The Enugu Police Command has announced the arrest of one Ejike Okeke, who specialises in rail track vandalism, and recovered one locally-made pistol with one live cartridge from him.
Okeke, 18, of Nkwubor-Nike Village, Enugu East Local Government Area of the state, identified as a member of a syndicate of rail track vandals, was arrested on May 9 at about 11am, according to a statement yesterday by the Command’s spokesperson, ASP Daniel Ndukwe.
Ndukwe said that the arrest was achieved by police operatives attached to the Enugu Metro Area Command, in conjunction with operatives of the Vigilance group of Nchatancha-Nike in Enugu.
He said that Okeke and others, who ran on sighting the operatives, were found attempting to vandalise railway tracks at Nkwubor rail-line, adding that investigation was ongoing to apprehend his other gang members that fled.
“In another development, operatives attached to Awkunanaw Police Division on May 11 at about 7:30am, recovered one custom-coloured Toyota Camry Car with registration number:
ENU 556 MH, along Amagugwu Road, Awkunanaw, Enugu.
“Preliminary investigation shows that the car was stolen from where it was parked at Abakaliki Road, Enugu, by the criminal gang, who abandoned the vehicle and fled due to intense pressure mounted by operatives.
In the meantime, discreet investigation to fish out the fleeing suspects had commenced, the police said.
(NAN)

Wave of insecurity a threat to 2023 polls — Okorie
A former presidential candidate, Chekwas Okorie, has said the current wave of insecurity and spate of killings in the country are threats to the 2023 general elections.
Okorie told Daily Trust in a telephone interview last night that if the situation is not nipped in the bud, future elections would be threatened.
He said the National Assembly in collaboration with the executive arm of government should adopt measures that would save the nation and deepen democracy in the country.
“Danger signs are all over the place and that is why some of us are very worried.
I pray very hard that it should be addressed.
“The president has a big role to play in this regard.
The National Assembly also has its own role to play in collaboration with the executive arm of government so that Nigeria can move ahead.
“The danger signs are all over the place; even a blind man can see it.
If nothing is done, we are in a big trouble,” he said.
Asked to state the consequences in the event the situation is not addressed, the APC chieftain said, “In the event it is not addressed, my fear is that we may not even get to 2023, in one peace and this means that Nigeria will disintegrate.
“There will be warlords; Nigerian Army will not be able to even deal with the situation.
There will be what is called lost command because there are some soldiers with weapons which when put together will not even be up to 50 percent of what is in private hands.
“The way I have seen Nigeria in recent times, we are now more divided along ethnic lines than religious lines.
Even when we belong to the same religion, we are getting more ethnic conscious.”

LCCI Agric group gets new chairman
The Agriculture and Agro-Allied Group of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has elected Mrs. Edobong Akpabio as the new chairman to steer the ship of the group and take charge of its affairs for the next two years.
This followed the expiration of the term of office of the previous executives of the group.
LCCI is the premier Chamber of Commerce and one of the leading voices in the organised private sector (OPS) in Nigeria.
Mrs. Edobong Akpabio is a Co-Founder/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Visionage Agrotech Farms Limited and Organic Green Animalia Farms Limited, two notable Agribusiness organisations.
She had her tertiary education at the University of Uyo, where she obtained a Bachelor of Arts Degree in English Studies in 1988 and a Post-Graduate Diploma in Logistics and Supply Chain Management from the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife in 2005.
Akpabio has contributed immensely to the reversal of importation of agricultural products and has assisted in local content drive and sustainability.
The Director General of LCCI, Dr. Muda Yusuf said that Mrs. Akpabio’s election will ensure and enhance the Chamber’s role as leading advocate of best business policy and practice, with the view to promoting and protecting Small and Medium Enterprises, which in turn will impact positively on the economy.

INEC fixes June 19 for Jigawa, Kaduna bye-elections
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed Saturday, 19 June 2021 for the conduct of the bye-elections in Gwaram Federal Constituency, Jigawa State and Sabon Gari state constituency in Kaduna State.
National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee (IVEC), Festus Okoye, who said this on Friday in Abuja in separate statements, said the official notifications for the elections would be published on 17 May 2021.
The developments followed the death of the member representing Gwaram Federal Constituency of Jigawa State in the House of Representatives, Hon.
Yuguda Hassan Kila on 4 March 2021, as well as the declaration of the seat of the member representing Sabon Gari state constituency in Kaduna Assembly, Hon.
Aminu Abdullahi Shagali, vacant.
According to him, political parties would conduct their primaries between May 18 and 24, 2021, adding that the access code for online submission of nomination forms will be available for collection from May 24, 2021, at the commission’s headquarters in Abuja while the last day for submission of the list of nominated candidates is 28 May 2021 at 6.00 pm.
“All political parties must pay attention to Section 87 of the Electoral Act relating to the nomination processes and submit to the commission the names and particulars of candidates that scored the majority of lawful votes and emerged from valid party primaries.
“Political parties shall submit the names of their polling agents for the election to the INEC Electoral Officer for Gwaram Local Government Area on/or before June 1, 2021, and campaigns by political parties shall end on June 17, 2021.
“The detailed timetable and schedule of activities for the bye-election have been uploaded on the commission’s website and other social media platforms.
“The commission wishes to reiterate that since work on the expansion of voter access to polling units in the country is ongoing, the bye-election will hold in the existing polling units and voting points across the constituency covering Gwaram Local Government Area of Jigawa State and Sabon Gari Local Government Area of Kaduna State,” Okoye said.
He also urged all political parties to strictly adhere to the timetable and schedule of activities and avoid rancorous primaries and violence during the campaigns and throughout the electoral process.

Explosions: Senate urges clampdown on illegal gas retailers
The Senate on Tuesday urged the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) to clamp down on illegal roadside retailers of liquefied petroleum gas, those operating within residential areas and licensed plants who lack basic and standard minimum requirements.
It also mandated its committees on Gas and Industries to investigate the causes of the recent cases of gas explosions across the country with a view to finding permanent and sustainable solutions that would save the lives of the people.
These followed the adoption of a motion by Senator Ibikunle Amosun, who expressed sadness over the loss of at least eight lives in gas-related explosions and fire incidences in Abeokuta metropolis, Ogun State, in quick successions within two weeks last month.
The Senate, accordingly, called on the Federal and State Fire Services to enforce the mandatory use of fire safety equipment in homes and places of work.
It also urged the Standards Organization of Nigeria, the DPR, the National Orientation Agency and marketers of gas and highly inflammable products to embark on aggressive, consistent sensitization and awareness campaigns on safe ways of using gas cylinders and other inflammable materials to save lives.

2023: Muslim group urges Umahi to contest presidency
Members of the Muslim community in Ebonyi State on Thursday urged Governor David Umahi to contest for president in 2023.
Leader of the group, Alhaji Abass Egwu, made the appeal at the state government house in Abakiliki, when he led the group members to pay this year’s
Eid-el-Fitr homage to the governor.
“We plead with you, Your Excellency, that you should make yourself available for national service in 2023, Insha Allah.
“If you have a good son, there is no need to canvass for him.
A good market sells itself.
Your Excellency, you are a good market and we will not let you down,” the group said.
Responding, Umahi who was represented by the deputy governor, Dr. Kelechi Igwe, said the state was committed to the protection of the lives and property of every citizen.

Iheanacho, Ndidi win FA Cup as Leicester City beat Chelsea in final
Nigerian duo, Kelechi Iheanacho and Wilfred Ndidi are FA Cup winners after helping Leicester City to beat Chelsea 1-0 in the FA Cup final played on Saturday.
It is Leicester City’s
first FA Cup in the club’s 137-year history.
Youri Tielemans’s sensational strike in front of 22,000 fans at Wembley was the difference between the two teams.
The largest crowd for a sports event in England since the coronavirus pandemic hit 14 months ago were treated to a goal worthy to win any trophy as the Belgian midfielder blasted into the top corner on 63 minutes.
Kasper Schmeichel produced a stunning save to deny Mason Mount late on and Chelsea also had a goal ruled out by a VAR review for offside.
Five years after the Foxes stunned the Premier League’s giants to become champions, Leicester have now claimed English football’s other prestigious trophy at the fifth time of asking.
Four times they had previously lost the final, but the last of those was 52 years ago.
A historic week for Brendan Rodgers’s men could get even better as they are on the verge of sealing a place in next season’s Champions League.
The sides meet again in three days’ time at Stamford Bridge in a pivotal clash to decide who secures a top-four finish in the Premier League.
Chelsea need a quick response after losing for just the fourth time in 27 games since Thomas Tuchel replaced the sacked Frank Lampard in January.
The Blues also have a Champions League final to look forward to against Manchester City in two weeks’ time but could end the campaign without silverware or a place in Europe’s premier club competition next season.
Chelsea’s success under Tuchel has come thanks to an excellent defensive record, but their struggles at the other end were again exposed.
Tuchel’s men dominated before half-time but laboured to create clear-cut chances despite Leicester losing defensive lynchpin Jonny Evans to injury midway through the first half.
Wayward Werner Timo Werner’s
wayward finishing has characterised his first season in England since joining from RB Leipzig for £47 million ($66 million) and the German international had another day to forget in front of goal.
Tuchel turned away in disgust after Werner blazed high and wide from the edge of the box with the Leicester defence stretched midway through the first half.
Werner then came closest to breaking the deadlock before half-time as his header drifted just wide and evaded Cesar Azpilicueta as the Chelsea captain launched himself in at the far post.
The welcome return of noise echoing down from 6,000 fans of each side from both ends of the ground helped mask a general lack of quality on the field.
Another 10,000 local supporters, key workers and Football Association stakeholders were also in attendance as Wembley gears up for hosting matches at Euro 2020 next month at 25 per cent capacity.
One moment of magic proved decisive as Tielemans collected possession midway inside the Chelsea half and strode forward before unleashing an unstoppable strike into the top corner past Kepa Arrizabalaga.
Tuchel flexed the strength in depth of his squad in an attempt to find an equaliser as Callum Hudson-Odoi, Ben Chilwell, Kai Havertz, Olivier Giroud and Christian Pulisic were all introduced off the bench.
But they were denied by the brilliance of Schmeichel in the Leicester goal.
Chilwell, whose every touch was booed by the Leicester supporters, nearly came back to haunt his old club as his header was turned onto the post by the Dane.
Mount then could not believe his luck as his sweetly struck shot was turned behind by a brilliant stop from Schmeichel.
Even when the Leicester ‘keeper was beaten, Chelsea were denied by a VAR review.
A Wes Morgan own goal looked set to send the game to extra-time, but Chilwell had strayed offside in the build-up.
Leicester players and fans celebrated the decision like a goal and were in raptures again moments later after seeing out a nervy finale.
(AFP)

Tinubu, govs, other S/West leaders reject secession
Amidst agitation for the Oduduwa Republic in the South-West, leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the geo-political zone Sunday met in Lagos where they expressed “strong opposition” to the agitation.
The meeting held in Lagos House, Marina, was at the instance of the former interim National Chairman of the APC, Chief Bisi Akande.
At the meeting was a national leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, governors of Lagos, Babajide Sanwo-Olu,  Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), Adegboyega Oyetola (Osun) and Chief Bisi Akande.
Others were General Alani Akinrinade (rtd), former governor of Ogun State, Aremo Segun Osoba, Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo and Chief Pius Akinyelure among others.
Daily Trust learnt that the meeting was in response to the raging agitation for Yoruba nation by a section of the region with several rallies held in South-West states to agitate for Oduduwa Republic.
In a communiqué read by Chief Akande, the South West leaders asked security agencies and the federal government to reduce tension in the country following the worsening security challenges bedeviling the nation.
The communique reads in part; “We note with significant concern the security situation in the country.
Terrorism and violent criminality threaten many areas, adversely affecting the lives and livelihoods of too many innocent and peace-loving Nigerians.
“We urge the federal government to continue to make the necessary expenditures and allocate sufficient resources to enable the military and security agencies to tackle the difficult security challenges confronting us.
“For Nigeria to overcome these challenges, we must do so with unity of purpose and action.
The desire for peace and the chance for a prosperous and just society is universal and transcends all regional, religious or ethnic divisions.
Sadly, many public figures have made statements that spark division and undermine the needed unity of purpose.
“We restate our abhorrence of violence as a means to achieve either political or economic power and influence.
We strongly condemn violence of any form in any part of the country, regardless of ethnic or regional identity of the perpetrators of the violence or of the victims.
Government must do all it can to protect potential victims and to assist those who have previously been victimized by terrorism or widespread banditry.
“We endorse the position of the Southern Governors taken at their May 11, 2021 summit in Asaba, Delta State, regarding ranching.
We do so because such a decision will lessen tensions between farmers and herders while also helping the long-term economic viability of both the farming and herding communities.”

2023: INEC verifies voting points for conversion to polling units
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Tuesday commenced a nationwide verification exercise of the voting points (VPs) proposed to be converted to polling units (PUs) across the country.
INEC Chairman Prof. Mahmood Yakubu said this on Tuesday in Abuja, when he visited some of the proposed centres and existing PUs in the FCT and Nasarawa State.
Speaking with newsmen at the commission’s Local Government office in Karu, Nasarawa State, Yakubu said the purpose of the verification exercise was to ensure the right thing was done in the conversion of the VPs to PUs.
“All the national commissioners are out, visiting the states of the federation to verify the work of converting the voting points to polling units,” he said.
Meanwhile, the commission yesterday said it has upgraded 956 voting points to polling units in Sokoto State.

A guide to soya bean farming as planting begins June
Soya is a plant grown mostly for its edible bean which can be used for different purposes.
It is a legume known for its high nutritious value.
Our agric editor who has been monitoring the soya bean value-chain reports that despite the fact that Nigeria is said to be the largest producer of the crop in Africa, its production level has not attained its full capacity.
This is because soya bean farming in the country is still largely done by small farmers who grow the crop as a minor crop alongside major crops like maize, cowpea (beans) and cassava.
Some soya bean farmers that spoke with Daily Trust believe that the crop can be grown in many states in Nigeria using low agricultural input.
Why more farmers should go into soya bean farming
Mallam Yinusa Jimoh, an Ilorin-based retired agric extension officer, told Daily Trust on phone that aside from its domestic and economical values, soya bean improved soil fertility and could be used to control striga.
He said the market for soya bean in Nigeria was growing fast, with opportunities for improving the income of farmers.
A handbook on soya bean produced by the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) shows that the rapid growth in the poultry sector in the past five years has also increased demand for soya bean meal in Nigeria.
The IITA handbook reads in part: “It is also a prime source of vegetable oil in the international market.
Soya bean has an average protein content of 40 per cent and is more protein-rich than any of the common vegetable or animal food sources found in Nigeria.”
According to IITA, SALMA Oil Mills in Kano, Grand Cereals in Jos, ECWA Feeds in Jos, AFCOT Oil Seed Processors in Adamawa and PS Mandrides in Kano all process soya bean.
This means that there is a ready market for interested farmers in the country.
Presently at the local market, a measure of soya bean costs around N600; depending on the area, while a 50kg bag costs around N17,000.
The global demand for the crop nears about 11 million tonnes, while Africa’s annual expenditure of soya bean is about 619 thousand tonnes.
Best ways to farm soya bean
According to a long time soya bean farmer, Dr Awoniyi Joseph, planting of soya bean usually starts in June, and that it grows well on all kinds of soil, except deep soils with poor water retention.
Dr Joseph informed farmers that an important factor to consider when embarking on soya bean farming in Nigeria was rainfall.
He said Nigeria had a very favourable climatic condition that was ideal for soya bean to flourish.
According to him, good harvest depends mostly on adequate irrigation as the crop can also be grown in areas with lesser amounts of rainfall through irrigation.
According to IITA, soya bean should not be planted in sandy, gravelly, or shallow soils to avoid drought stress, advising that it should not be grown in waterlogged soils or soils with surfaces that can crust, as this will lead to poor seedling emergence
Planting
Clear all vegetation before land preparation.
The seedbed may be prepared manually with a hoe or an animal-drawn implement or tractor, IITA advised.
Well-prepared land ensures good germination and reduces weed infestation.
You can plant on ridges or on a flat seedbed, the IITA added.
Choosing your seeds
Experts warn that soya bean variety selection should be based on maturity, yield potential, lodging, drought tolerance and resistance to pests and diseases.
John Stephen, a soya bean farmer in Garam, a Niger State community neighbouring the FCT, insisted that the maturity period should be the first consideration when choosing a variety suited to your geographical zone.
Stephen advised that, “Consider varieties that are earlier maturing rather than late maturing in areas with low rainfall.
Although later maturity increases the yield potential, it is risky to grow late maturing varieties in drier environments because of late season drought.’’
IITA advised farmers to use high quality seeds of the selected variety as soya bean seeds easily lose their viability.
According to the institute, it is common for soya bean, even when stored properly, not to germinate after 12 to 15 months in storage.
“Therefore, use seeds that are not more than 12 months old to ensure good germination.
Sort out the good seeds for planting to ensure that they are free from insects, disease infestation and weed seeds.
Do not purchase seeds from the open market as the germination potential is not guaranteed.
Planting poor quality seeds will not produce a good yield,’’
the institute advised in the handbook.
Conducting germination test 
If possible, IITA recommends seed test before planting.
The institute recommends that the germination rate should be 85 per cent or more to obtain a good stand.
According to IITA, to conduct a quick seed germination test, select 400 seeds randomly and sow 100 seeds each in four wooden or plastic boxes or a prepared seedbed.
Sow one seed per hole at a distance of 10cm between the seeds.
Soak cloth or paper-lined germination boxes or the seedbed well with water before sowing and provide water every morning and evening.
Start counting the seedlings five days after sowing and complete the counting within 10 days.
A total count of 320 germinated seeds or more indicates a germination rate of 80 per cent and above.
When the percentage of germination is 80 per cent or less, the seed rate has to be increased accordingly to achieve 100 per cent.
Fertiliser application
IITA advises that a good fertiliser recommendation for soya bean production depends on a good soil test.
Under normal conditions, soya bean as a legume should provide itself with nitrogen through biological nitrogen fixation.
Until nodulation occurs, the soya bean plant depends on soil nitrogen for growth.
Phosphorus is often the most deficient nutrient, therefore, apply optimum phosphorous fertiliser for good yield.
The institute further advises farmers to incorporate the fertiliser into the soil during harrowing and levelling of the field.
Pests, diseases and weeds
Perennial and most annual weeds are a problem to soya bean in its early growth stages.
A properly timed weed control programme can minimise the effects of weeds.
Weed control in soya bean could be manual or chemical, or both.
Manual weed control
: Carry out the first weeding at two weeks after planting and the second at five to six weeks after planting.
Avoid weeding immediately after a rainfall as this will lead to transplanting the weeds.
Poor hoe weeding or delay in weeding can cause significant reduction in yield.
Chemical weed control:
Herbicides, if used properly, are safe and effective in controlling weeds in soya bean cultivation.
The choice of herbicide, however, depends on the predominant weed species and the availability of the herbicide.
Herbicides are available for pre-emergence or post-emergence weed control in soya bean.
If herbicide is applied at planting, one weeding may be required at five to six weeks after planting.
Several different insects infest soya bean fields, but few are normally of any economic importance, and the species that cause damage are usually not abundant enough to warrant control measures.
In the vegetative stage, the crop is very tolerant of caterpillars but very susceptible to silverleaf whitefly attack.
Harvest
Soya bean for shelling and fresh use are ready for harvest from 65 days after sowing.
However, dry soya beans require 100 or more days to reach harvest.
Soya bean farmers advise that for green shell beans, soya bean could be harvested when pods are green, full and plump.

FIFA, UEFA licensed agents storm Kano in search of talented players
A team of European scouts under the umbrella of 60 Goals Soccer Star Project has arrived the city of Kano to conduct an U-16 football talent hunt beginning from June 1.
Addressing a press conference Wednesday, the licensed agents said their decision to conduct the scouting programme in Kano was informed by the high number of young and talented players available for selection.
The Chief Executive Officer, 60 Goals Soccer Star Project who is also a FIFA intermediary agent, Jane Ndubuisi added that the project is introduced to empower Kano youths through football.
“We are here, therefore, to pick talents and to help them achieve their dreams”.
She urged parents to encourage their wards to combine football with education.
On his part, Miroslav Marjanovic expressed hope that as many players as possible would be given the opportunity to showcase their skills during the exercise.
He said “Youths from rural areas will be given the opportunity to showcase their talent and the best among them would be selected for trials abroad.
“My hope is that many of the players here in Kano are going to succeed for themselves and their immediate society.”
In a similar vein, Milan Martinovic noted that the screening is packaged to give youthful players the avenue to express themselves for opportunities to become professional footballers.
For the president of 60 Goals Soccer Star Project and Ex Nigerian U-23 player Francis Ikechukwu, a level playing field will be provided for all the participants.
“What we need is talent and
it’s only your ability that will give you the chance no matter what, because we don’t know corruption,” he said.

How to use SEEDCODEX to check fake seeds
If you are planning to buy genuine seed, then look for the ones that have SEEDCODEX tag by the National Agricultural Seed Council (NASC).
The SEEDCODEX tag is an electronic seed verification and authentication system attached to every seed pack.
Farmers can scratch it and text the code to a dedicated number for verification.
The Director General of the council, Dr Phillips Ojo, stated this in Abuja at a press briefing to highlight the readiness of the agency to provide quality, certified seeds for the 2020/2021 planting season.
“Our call to farmers is that only seeds affixed with the NASC SEEDCODEX tags fall under this category and it should be what they should buy from the shelves of their seed suppliers.
“The SEEDCODEX tag, as you are aware, is the output of the NASC electronic seed verification and authentication system that enhances the efficiency of our seed certification and quality assurance scheme which we put in place to prevent seed adulteration by unscrupulous seed merchants.
“Farmers should know that all certified seeds packs in Nigeria must carry this authentication tags with code affixed on them for farmers to send to a dedicated number to instantly verify the authenticity of seeds they purchased and report any unscrupulous seed dealers in the national seed space to NASC,” Dr Ojo said.

Melania Trump’s chief of staff resigns
Stephanie Grisham, U.S. First Lady Melania Trump’s chief of staff, says she is resigning effective immediately.
A longtime associate of Mrs Trump, Grisham was also a former White House spokeswoman.
She said it had been an honour to serve the Trump administration.
Grisham gave no reasons for her unexpected move.
It remained unclear whether her departure was related to the storming of the Capitol by supporters of outgoing president Donald Trump.
(dpa/NAN)

Traffickers conceal drugs inside statue of Blessed Virgin Mary
Drug traffickers looking for a fail-proof way to smuggle illicit drugs decided on the religious route—by stuffing their stash in a statue of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Mother of Jesus.
NDLEA operatives embedded in two courier companies intercepted the drugs concealed in the statue and some in auto spare parts to be dispatched to Canada and the United Arab Emirates.
A stash of 140 grammes of methamphetamine stuffed inside a statue of Mary headed for the Philippines was intercepted in one of the courier companies.
Another 500 grammes of heroin concealed in auto spare parts headed for Canada was intercepted in a second courier company.
A separate package of 3.1kg of Indian hemp concealed inside spices and another one kilogramme of Indian hemp concealed in local herbs head for the UAE were also seized, according to Femi Babafemi, director of media and advocacy at the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency.
In a related development, the NDLEA in sting operations arrested 31 suspects in Ondo State for being in possession of 276 kg of assorted illicit drugs.
Those arrested included seven females.
They were arrested during a two-week raid which began on April 6.
Babafemi said that the sting operations were carried out to curb the increasing rate of drug abuse among youths and even the elderly in Ondo State.
He added that the illicit drugs seized were 74.285kgs of Indian hemp, 267grammes of other psychotropic substances;
201kgs of “skuchies’’ (a combination of Indian hemp, tramadol, ethanol, and “Zobo’’).
NDLEA dismantled or destroyed most of the vending spots where the drugs were being dispensed, he said.
In Akwa Ibom, the NDLEA also seized 62.150kg of illicit drugs in Oron and Uyo.
Babafemi quoted the NDLEA commander in the state, Obot Bassey, as saying that four suspects were arrested in two sting operations conducted on April 22 and April 23.
He stated that NDLEA chairman, retired Brig.-Gen.
Buba Marwa, had commended operatives in the two states and those of Operations and General Investigations Directorate in Lagos for their steadfastness.
(NAN)

Pastor Adefarasin, if Nigeria is a scam; then we’re all scammers
It is the bounden duty of every citizen to hold the government to account.
In fact, citizenship is a call to duty – for the state.
And there is no compelling duty which supersedes citizens subjecting their employees – the government – to scrutiny and constant vigilance.
Criticising the government is within the rights of every citizen, and active citizenship demands taking the government through its paces.
No government is without criticism, and none is too special for criticism.
However, we must distinguish between any government and Nigeria as a country.
Governments will come and go, but Nigeria remains.
We must understand Nigeria is its people.
So, when we cast pejoratives at the country we are only slinging shots at ourselves.
If we say, ‘’Nigeria is a scam’’, inadvertently we are implying, ‘’Nigerians are scammers’’.
Nigeria did not become a ‘’scam’’, as some of those reviling the nation say, by accident; it became whatever it is by the machination of all of us.
Nigeria is not a ‘’mere geographical expression’’.
Nigeria is its people.
The good, the bad and the ugly – we made it so.
Whatever is ailing the country we are a vector of the causative factors.
If Nigeria is a scam – as alleged by Pastor Paul Adefarasin — then we are all scammers.
Though I concede that Adefarasin’s outburst might have come from a place of patriotism, his cataloguing of Nigeria as a ‘’scam and fraud’’ falls short of tact and critical reasoning.
If Nigeria is a fraud; then we are all fraudsters – leaders and followers alike.
We all have contributed in no small measure to the discomfiture of the entity.
We live in a country where pastors run their ministries like conglomerates.
They run them like business enterprises — but evading tax in the process.
CAMA; a law to regulate the business undertakings of the religious industry and to bring some transparency and accountability into the ‘’spiritual business’’ was introduced by the government.
However, the staunchest antagonists of this law have been pastors.
Yet, these same people who do not want to live by the law are the loudest voices when passing capital sentences on Nigeria.
Interestingly, these pastors run their churches in conformity with the law in other countries.
They submit their finances for regular checks by the authorities in the UK, the US and other places.
But in Nigeria they live in triumph of the law.
Pastor Chris Oyakhilome has been spreading injurious falsehood regarding COVID vaccine.
He claims it is the concoction of the anti-Christ.
He was fined 125,000 pounds for making ‘’potentially harmful and unsubstantiated’’ claims about the vaccine by the UK.
But in Nigeria where he continues to traffic in COVID conspiracies, he has not been made to account for his transgressions because he is a ‘’man of god’’.
Perhaps, this is why Nigeria is a ‘’scam’’.
If Nigeria is a scam, then it is because of pastors who sit on high and trample on the laws governing the land.
If Nigeria is a fraud, then it is because of pastors who go into concordats with politicians every election season; campaigning for them on the pulpit and commanding the bloodhounds of hell against those who do not accept their ‘’anointed candidates’’.
The clergy is as tainted as the political class.
Also, a civil servant, who earns N150,000 monthly but has kids in UK schools and with real estate dotting major cities in the country, will revile Nigeria submerging his own hypocrisy in lamentations and jibes at the state.
He ignores conveniently his complicity in the corruption ravaging the country.
In addition, some citizens spurn laws, rules and regulations.
Where there are traffic lights, they ignore them; where there are procedures, they bypass them, and where there are standards put in place for effective service delivery and operations, they abandon them.
Yet, they all blame ‘’Nigeria’’ for the jeopardous status quo as if the country exists without its people.
The problem with Nigeria is a people problem.
But the tragedy is that no one wants to accept liability for the appalling state of things.
We cast the blame at the feet of ‘’abstract Nigeria’’.
We are all complicit in the degenerative emasculation of Nigeria.
Instead of abiding in wilful fatalism about Nigeria, we should project goodness and positivity into the system while working at making our country what we want it to be.
Nigeria is what we make of it.
The political class is flawed.
But that is the reason a new generation of leaders must emerge and take the reins.
None but ‘’ourselves can free our minds’’.
Citizenship is a call to duty.
NIGERIA IS NOT A SCAM.
‘Mr OneNigeria’ Nwabufo tweets @FredrickNwabufo

Why secession is not the Silver Bullet to Nigeria’s challenges (III)
The principle of self-determination as enshrined in the UN charter and which our secessionists latch on to was enacted at a time many peoples of the world were under colonial yoke or other forms of domination by outside powers.
The principle was to give fillip to independence and liberation movements in order for them to gain their freedom and determine their path of future development.
In our world today, this principle applies only to a handful of peoples as an overwhelming majority of the world are now free from colonial subjugation and self-governing.
Thus the principle of self-determination, which was enacted under the UN charter, will have to be amended to accommodate the demands of our secessionists because going by its intendment and wordings they hardly qualify.
First of all, they have to prove constructively and convincingly that the areas they purport to represent are under some form of subjugation and that they lack the basic freedoms that all peoples should enjoy as required under the UN charter.
And in the unlikely case of proving that, they will also have to convince the UN of the steps they have taken from the national (National Assembly), sub-regional (ECOWAS) and continental level (AU) to press their case.
And the UN will not just take their word for it.
There will be fact finding committees to determine whether indeed Nigeria as a country practises the basic requirements of democracy or not.
The case is even made trickier by the fact that those areas are neither disputed territories nor under any trusteeship requiring a UN referendum to either confer direct independence to them or ask them which of the competing powers they wished to join.
If our secessionists cannot provide these basic requirements, the farthest their case could get within the UN system will predictably be the waste paper basket because the UN is not for frivolities.
It does not lend its very elaborate and transparent processes to be abused by movements that hardly know what they are about.
The case of marginalisation, which is also cited as one of the reasons for secession, is too trivial to even waste our time on.
Every democratic system provides for winners and losers in elections.
And as imperfect as our political system is, the constitution compels mandatory representation in government and its institutions for as many ethnic nationalities and geo-political zones as possible.
The secessionist would have a tough time convincing the outside world that their case for marginalisation is more compelling than those of the over 300 other ethnic nationalities inhabiting Nigeria.
In other words, why would the international community, to which the secessionists address their ‘’grievances’’ and from which they seek support for their cause, single out just two out of the hundreds of such cases ringing in the Nigerian media for action?
What makes their cases so special and urgent above those of others in Nigeria who have conversely chosen not to follow the path of secession?
On all the three premises that our secessionists base their agitations, none is convincing or compelling enough to justify their actions.
On the amalgamation argument, Nigeria is not a unique case in Africa or indeed the world.
If Nigeria has to be broken up because it was wrongly amalgamated by Britain, then this applies to virtually all but a few countries in Africa.
In essence if this principle were to be applied it will set the course for the commencement of a new scramble for Africa by the old and emerging powers of the world in which Africans as before will be the victims.
Let us not deceive ourselves for the disintegration of Nigeria if it happens (God forbid) will result in the emergence of entities
too weak such that they will find themselves at the mercy of foreign powers.
Some arguments have been made of a break up of Nigeria along the lines of Eastern European states and in the Balkans.
In this regard, it will serve us well to discern that what works for Europe may not necessarily work for Africa.
In the case of the aforementioned countries, it was part of great geo-strategic games of the major world powers who had direct cultural, economic and political links and interests in the emerging scenarios.
And these countries had defined borders before they agreed to come together for mutual defence in the uncertain situation of the Second World War.
Once the Soviet order, which held them together, began to unravel the need arose for the peripheral countries to revert to the status quo ante.
And, more importantly, these developments had the backing and guarantees of the principal powers in Europe and the world in the quest for a balance of power.
Do Nigerian secessionists have such reckoning and profile in the calculations of the principal powers of the world to warrant their time?
The answer obviously is zilch.
This is, however, not dismissing that the agitations for secession in the country do not have some justifiable basis.
Anybody living in this country with the rising case of insecurity, poverty, corruption, nepotism, economic uncertainties amidst the unbelievable incompetence and near criminal indifference of the government to these challenges will conclude that indeed we have a state that is failing in its basic constitutional duties and responsibilities.
And in a fragile country like ours with gaping fault lines, tendencies or preferences for dissolution of the union are bound to emerge and grow exponentially along with the clear dysfunctionality of the government of the day.
And these feelings are all round.
But daunting as the outlook is and tempting as the prospect appears, secession cannot be the solution to our existential challenges as a nation.
Indeed it is a prospect fraught with lurking uncertain dangers not least for its proponents but for the country as a whole.
Nigeria is not imperfect.
Even some of the advanced countries have shown that despite years of existence and well defined systems, they are not immune from crises arising from internal contradictions.
We should not delude ourselves that in trying to break up our country, some countries will benevolently assist us.
What they will do is provide us with the means to destroy and weaken ourselves in the process and then proceed to profit from that at our own expense.
That is the reality of the international system.
As the distinguished German beamter at the beginning of my article said and advised; we are at once our own problems and our own solutions.
We must put our thoughts, talents and efforts collectively to developing Nigeria rather than breaking it up.
(Concluded)

Fidelity marks Children’s Day with N9.3m cash gift to customers
To mark this year’s Children’s Day, Fidelity Bank paid N150,000 to 62 Sweet Account (SWEETA) holders across the country amounting to a total of N9.3 million through its ongoing savings loyalty programme.
The bank presented cheques to the beneficiaries at various children’s events in Katsina, Niger, Abuja and Lagos.
Commenting on the initiative, Fidelity Bank CEO, Mrs Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe, said, “All-round quality education remains a strong anchor in raising tomorrow’s children and breeding exceptional children who can compete globally.
This is why we have decided to contribute our quota as a bank by offering school fees support to select Nigerian children.
“The bank has given out N4.1bn to 10,280 customers from the inception of the loyalty scheme to date.”

Investing in young people: The Ahmed Bobboi example
In July, 2017, I had the singular honour of spending an evening inside a British bank called Coutts as part of the many activities lined up for us as the 2017 Queen’s Young Leaders.
You may wonder why I would be writing about attending an event in a place as boring as a bank.
However, Coutts is no ordinary bank.
Apart from being one of the eight oldest banks in the world (founded some 329 years ago in 1692), Coutts is a private bank known for its high ranking clientele like Her Majesty the Queen.
Walking inside the vast hall, we were welcomed by two men under a great dome in the centre of the building.
I immediately recognised one of the two men who stood with a familiar wide smile.
It was Sir John Major, a former British Prime Minister and Chairman of the Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee Trust.
We had met earlier at a dinner in our honor in the Australian High Commission in London where he congratulated us for our recognition by Her Majesty.
The other man was introduced to us as Lord William Waldegrave of North Hill, Chairman of the Board of Coutts Bank and Chairman of the Royal Mint Advisory Committee.
We had a splendid evening full of entertainment; eating and drinking.
But beyond the pomp and glamour were the speeches and interactions with Lord Waldegarve and Sir Major, two outstanding leaders in the United Kingdom (UK).
They expressed delight at celebrating our achievements and described us as extraordinary individuals, charging us to develop our skills even further and create lasting legacies for our countries and the Commonwealth at large.
Subsequently, I spoke privately to both Sir Major and Lord Wadegrave, asking them specific questions ranging from public service to banking and finance to innovation and young people.
I learned immensely from them
and I left Coutts
that night tremendously inspired and motivated to be an even more active change agent, innovator and young leader back in Nigeria.
Whether you are in government or in business, and especially as an innovator or entrepreneur, I cannot overemphasise how crucial these types of inspirations can be for the work you do.
Some may write off these validations as irrelevant, forgetting how instances like such provide a great deal of mentorship, motivation, as well as create examples for aspiring leaders to see champions among people like themselves.
The feeling of validation and motivation coupled with guidance and support is an absolutely necessary ingredient for all leaders and especially young people.
The earlier our older generation in Nigeria realises it and wholeheartedly embraces this culture of support, mentorship and indeed celebration of our achievements, the better for the future of this country and its burgeoning population of young people.
Forgive my digression.
The reason I am narrating this encounter is that for a long time since it happened, I did not quite experience anything like it until recently when I sat with another public servant in Nigeria, the Executive Secretary of the Petroleum Equalisation Fund
(Management) Board (PEF-M-B), Alhaji Ahmed A Bobboi.
Whereas oil and gas is not my main industry of discipline or practice, I am of the firm opinion that not being knowledgeable about it is very reckless since the sector’s revenue contribution
far outweighs any non-oil revenue source to the country.
So I have kept myself abreast of the industry even as I advocate for a transition and dedication to non-oil sources of income.
I was delighted by the opportunity to engage with a crucial stakeholder in the person of the executive, especially because the organisation is a pacesetter in deploying cutting edge technology to improve efficiency and performance in the sector.
However, what I got from this encounter was even more valuable than just further understanding of the industry.
We discussed on topics ranging from history to governance and from job creation to innovation and entrepreneurship.
It was so exhilarating and refreshing and it transported me directly to Coutts once again.
I had met Mr Bobboi for the first time when I joined a team which he co-champions, working on a regional entrepreneurship acceleration programme under the auspices of Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) where communities around the world engage with MIT in an evidence-based practical approach to strengthening innovation-driven entrepreneurial ecosystems.
I was immediately struck by the vision and dedication that this spells for PEF-M-B to be involved in this project as it is certainly visionary and more beneficial to help build a formidable entrepreneurial ecosystem with a partner like MIT than the usually mundane and often barely impactful Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes most institutions engage in.
During that particular encounter with him, we discussed about our two-year programme with MIT and the huge burden of truly accelerating entrepreneurial development as a remedy to lack of jobs and a catalyst for prosperity.
The He spoke about various pain points for him as a leader and the approach to solve them.
One of my most brilliant takeaways was his idea on the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and how it could be hacked to serve young graduates and the nation better.
Noticing the idleness of some of the corps members serving at PEF-M-B, the executive secretary said he had been devising ways of not only ensuring that they were engaged, but that they left with lasting skills and knowledge that would inform career paths for them beyond government jobs.
This includes an elaborate programme to turn them into innovation-driven entrepreneurs through a dedicated and well curated innovation and enterprise training during their service year at PEF-MB.
The ingenuity and candid disposition of Mr. Bobboi was apparent and permeated throughout our discussion and I was left with an equally firm will to do my best in not only continually innovating across sectors but also ensuring continuity in cascading the inspiration and support for younger leaders and innovators, which could make all the difference for our dear country Nigeria.

Lagos LG polls: Aspirants to face direct primary as consensus option fails
Ahead of the July local government election in Lagos State, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will conduct an open primary for aspirants in the 20 local government areas (LGs) and 37 local council development areas (LCDAs), Daily Trust can report.
It was, however, learnt that there are some local governments where consensus option had been agreed upon.
Our correspondent gathered yesterday that the resort to the open primary followed the inability of aspirants to step down for one another amidst tension and disquiet among the LG chapters.
It would be recalled that 1050 aspirants comprising 250 chairmanship and 800 councillorship aspirants are vying for the 434 positions in the 57 LGs.
The party had been in a fix over a large number of aspirants while setting up a screening committee headed by the Deputy Governor, Dr Obafemi Hamza.
As of the time of filing this report, aspirants were anxiously awaiting the result of the screening.
A local government chairman who is contesting for a second term in a chat with our correspondent said an open primary would take place on Saturday, May 29, 2021, saying he is ready to face two other aspirants challenging him to the ticket.
Daily Trust reports that the party had already issued guidelines to the aspirants ahead of the open primary in a local government where consensus could not be agreed upon.
According to the guidelines sighted by Daily Trust, “Accredited members shall vote by open ballot at the designated venue by queuing up in front of the poster of their preferred candidate and
the aspirant with the highest number of votes shall be announced as the winner accordingly.”
Following the widespread report about the endorsement of some candidates by the APC National Leader and strongman of Lagos politics, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the former governor had come out to debunk the claim, saying he has no preferred candidate.
In a chat with Daily Trust, the Publicity Secretary of the state Caretaker Committee, Seye Oladejo said, “The guidelines are explicit that open direct primaries should be conducted.
The party is irrevocably committed to internal democracy and provide a level playing ground for all aspirants.”

UK MPS Demand Boycott of 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics
Calls to boycott the 2022 Winter Olympics have been intensifying steadily due to China’s alleged human rights abuses, particularly in the Xinjiang region against the Uyghur Muslims.
“The evidence that a genocide is now occurring in western China is so clear, that the UK and the whole world must now stand up to Beijing and use every available tool to stop it,” Ed Davey, the leader of the Liberal Democrats, and Labour MP Chris Bryant, a member of the foreign affairs select committee and a former junior foreign minister wrote on the Liberal Democrats website this month.
“We must remember when we failed to stand up against human rights abuses in the past, and recall the images from British sporting history like the England football team’s
Nazi salutes in the 1930s and the rebel cricket tours to South Africa in the 1980s,” Davey said while calling upon the government and the British Olympic Association to act.
“Team GB (Great Brittain), ParalympicsGB and the Government have a moral responsibility to consider if sending a team to these Games
is really the right thing to do.
The 2022 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games will be used as a propaganda tool for a regime committing genocide,” he added.
Recently, Canada’s main opposition party, the Conservative Party, urged Prime Minister Justin Trudeau-led government to pressure the International Olympic Committee to move the 2022 Winter Olympics out of Beijing, arguing China is committing genocide against more than one million Uyghurs in Xinjiang.
This comes after a coalition of 180 human rights groups urged governments around the world to boycott the Beijing Winter Olympic Games slated for next year due to China’s reported human rights abuses towards minorities.
The letter calls on countries to refuse participation in the games and “to ensure they are not used to embolden the Chinese government’s appalling rights abuses and crackdowns on dissent.”
The IOC said in a statement that the committee’s policy for its organising committees is to hear all concerns “directly related to the Olympic Games.”
For the Beijing Winter Olympics specifically, the IOC said its Evaluation Committee listened to the views of several NGOs, including concerns about human rights.
The committee cited its position that it shared with groups that IOC “must remain neutral on all global political issues” although it may not agree “with the political structure, social circumstances or human rights standards in its country.”
China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin, on the other hand labelled the calls for boycott as “highly irresponsible”.
The calls for boycotting next year’s winter Olympics came after Secretary of State Antony Blinken said he agrees with the former President Donald Trump administration’s characterization of the abuse of Uyghurs in China as genocide.

We are working on post-harvest techs — Provost, Kano Agric College
Dr Halima Alimi, the Acting Provost, Federal College of Agricultural Produce Technology (FCAPT), Kano, says the institute would develop quality post-harvest technologies for the country.
Alimi told newsmen in Kano that the new management of the institution had adopted proactive programmes to encourage research as well as create enabling teaching and learning environment for growth of post-harvest processing.
She said the management was geared to change the narrative through the introduction of new preservation technologies, reduce wastes and boost agricultural processing.
“We will ensure sanity among the staff and students, we shall improve on staff development geared to ensure conducive working and learning environment,” she said.
According to her, the college offers Ordinary National Diploma (OND) and Higher
National Diploma  (HND) programmes in various fields of agriculture.
“Our mandate is on post-harvest science; how to handle agricultural produce after harvest and this includes storage, preservation as well as processing.
“This is the only school in the country that has this mandate,” she said.
The provost therefore urged farmers to utilise innovations and other studies being executed by the college to improve their productivity.
(NAN)

Tuition hike: Police prevent students protest at Kaduna Government House
Police and State Vigilantes Service personnel on Tuesday prevented the protesting students of Kaduna State University from marching towards the Government House.
The students were protesting against the tuition fees increase by the state government.
Daily Trust observed that the angry-looking students were singing solidarity songs as they marched towards the government house before they were blocked by the police.
Heavily armed police personnel in vehicles and vigilantes operating under KADVIS were seen on the main road keeping vigil while the students sat on the floor in the middle of the road.
It could be recalled that the state government and management of the university had refused to reverse the fees despite pleas by students and their parents in the state.
One of the students’ representatives, Comrade Auba Mohammed, said they were marching towards the government house to just submit a letter of complaint to Governor Nasir El-Rufai.
He said the majority of them are orphans and that their parents cannot afford to pay for them.

Zimbabwe’s VP resigns amid sexual misconduct allegations
Zimbabwe’s Vice President, Kembo Mohadi, resigned on Monday in the face of sexual misconduct allegations, apologising for tasks he “failed to do well”.
Local news outlets have since late last month been awash with audio recordings of phone conversations allegedly of Mohadi soliciting sex from several women, including a subordinate in his office.
First published by online publication ZimLive, the clips included one where a man can be heard scheduling to meet for sex at his office.
“I am stepping down as the Vice President of the Republic of Zimbabwe …with immediate effect,” the 71-year-old leader said in a letter posted on the information ministry’s
Twitter account.
He had decided to leave office “not as a matter of cowardice” but out of respect for the office of the presidency “so that it is not compromised or caricatured by actions that are linked to my challenges as an individual”.
“I have been going through a soul searching pilgrimage and realised that I need the space to deal with my problems outside the governance chair,” he said.
He repeated his denial of any wrongdoing, saying he was “a victim of information distortion, voice cloning, and sponsored spooking and political sabotage”.
Mohadi, a retired soldier and veteran of the country’s liberation war, was one of Zimbabwe’s two vice presidents.
He served in several ministerial positions under former president Robert Mugabe and was appointed vice president in 2017 following Mugabe’s ouster.
(AFP)

Technologies arm professional farmers in China
Human resources are of huge importance for China’s rural vitalization.
At present, there are over 17 million high-calibre farmers working in the countryside to prosper the rural regions.
The improved scientific literacy of Chinese farmers has laid a solid foundation for their overall development and is offering stronger support for the country’s rural economy.
Bao Yuan is a young man running an aquatic product company in Qujing, southwest China’s Yunnan province that he established in 2014 after graduating from Yunnan Normal University in 2014.
“Artificial breeding not only diversifies people’s choices, but also helps protect endangered local fish species,” he said.
Song Xueqin is a Gen Y female who has made her name in the Lvliang Mountains, north China’s
Shanxi province by flat peach grafting techniques.
After graduation from college, Song was successively engaged in catering business, gypsum processing and sheep husbandry, but didn’t succeed in any of those.
In 2009, she heard that Chinese wild peaches can be turned into flat peaches through grafting techniques, so she asked one of her friends to bring her scions of flat peaches from northwest China’s Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region and invited an expert to impart relevant skills to her.
A year later, Song and her husband grafted flat peach scions onto over 4,000 wild peaches on a hillside near Hetaozhang village, Fenxi County, Shanxi province, but the fruiting wasn’t good.
“After consulting relevant materials and experts, we finally realized what cross-pollination was.
The yield goes high only when varieties grafted match,” she said.
Last year, the woman received her first certification of her life – a certificate for new professional farmers.
“The countryside is never short of resources.
In recent years, as people’s living standards have been raised, they are developing a larger demand for green and high-quality agricultural products.
“This trend is mobilizing more and more well-educated entrepreneurs who are technically skilled and know how to operate and manage businesses to go back to the countryside,” said Zuo Chenming, a senior researcher with AliResearch, a research arm of Alibaba Group.
Early in the morning, Mi Xiaohong from Yuzhong County, Lanzhou, northwest China’s Gansu province started working in a cowshed, serving the cattle with new fodder and water and cleaning the cowshed.
“The making of cattle fodder is complicated, as we must calculate how much grass and other materials we add in it and fairly decide the ratios of bran, glacial flour and salt,” she told People’s Daily, adding that the ingredients have to be adjusted according to different growth periods of the cattle.
Mi, always attending training programs held by the county government, has become a specialist in cattle husbandry.
“I made many detours as a layman, but now I’m often consulted by fellow villagers,” she said, adding that only by continuous learning can she solve more problems.
Today, local authorities across China are issuing new policies and measures to encourage farmers to study technologies.
Shandong province has launched a professional title evaluation system for professional farmers, and Jiangsu province’s Kunshan is offering free college education for professional farmers.
In Gansu Province, training sessions are launched for heads of professional cooperatives and animal epidemic prevention coordinators, in an effort to bring technologies to the farmland and find solutions to agricultural problems.
People’s Daily

2023: Group launches #BringBackGEJ project, pledges to fund campaigns
A group under the aegis of Youths Earnestly Demand For
Goodluck E.Jonathan (YED4GEJ 2023) has asked former President Goodluck Jonathan to contest the 2023 presidential election.
Jonathan lost power to the candidate of the then opposition All Progressives Congress (APC), Gen. Muhammadu Buhari (rtd) in the 2015 general election, thus, putting an end to the 16 years of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) reign in the country.
National Chairman of the group, Prince Teddy Omiloli and National Director Operations, Comrade Douye Daniel in a statement on Sunday expressed optimism that Jonathan would tackle the challenges bedeviling the country if given the mandate.
The group explained that Jonathan saw the need to restructure Nigeria while in power and called for a national confab in 2014, but was not allowed to implement it, as he was voted out of office, hence the need to give him another chance.
“At this point in time, after a vivid look into the ideologies and activities of our present political players which includes the youths and elders, we saw in Goodluck Jonathan, a true democrat, a nation builder, a divine inspired goal oriented leader of integrity that has the solution to the present Nigeria problems.
“He (Jonathan) has proven that he can sacrifice anything to ensure the unity, peace and development of our great nation Nigeria.
“We, as youths of this great nation after discovering the Nigeria problems and found the solution in Goodluck Jonathan, we are calling on all Nigerians including our political elites, present administration and religious leaders to join the call for the return of Goodluck Ebele Jonathan and also join our #BringbackGEJ project.
“We the youths are ready to purchase President Jonathan’s form in any party he chooses to flag from and we will fund his electioneering campaign from the beginning to end the moment he accepts this divine call,” the group said.

Rice sufficiency: Nigeria has a long way to go —Expert
Dr Philip Idinoba, a rice commodity specialist with AfricaRice, has raised concerns over increasing population that is eroding Federal Government’s effort toward boosting rice production.
Idinoba expressed the concern in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Gombe on Tuesday.
He said that there is need for more government investment on rice to boost Nigeria’s food security.
According to him, the government is doing a lot to boost rice production, being a staple food, but the growing population of the country is eroding such gains.
He said that the rate of urbanisation, which is one of the key drivers of rice consumption in Nigeria, was far higher than the rate at which rice cultivation was being improved.
“Nigeria still has a long way to go in terms of rice sufficiency.
“We are making efforts every year through the ‘Anchor Borrowers Programme’, special intervention programme and other donor funded projects.
“These are to bring certain things that will help farmers increase yields and productivity.
“But in spite of these Federal Government efforts, the number of new mouths we are adding yearly writes off all these improvements,’’ Idinoba said.
A lot to be done
The agronomist added that a lot needed to be done through increased investments, especially in dry season farming.
Dry season farming, according to him, can be leveraged on to boost rice productivity.
“We will have better result in rice production if we will be able to close the gaps that dry season often writes off in rice cultivation.’’
According to him, if you have eight million farmers cultivating rice in the wet season and only two million of them cultivate rice in the dry season, then the efforts are not enough yet.
Idinoba, who is also a water management specialist, advised farmers in flood-prone areas in the country to plant flood-tolerant varieties that could survive in water between three and four weeks.
These varieties, which were released three years ago and being multiplied by the National Seeds Council of Nigeria and other seeds companies, he said, were available and could be accessed by farmers.
“This year, the kind of stories we heard from farmers in Kebbi, Jigawa and Adamawa, with this kind of varieties, you may not have total failure like that.
“Hence, integrating such technologies will help in a way.’’
The rice specialist added that in such areas, there should be improvement in the cropping environment through the construction of water structures to control, retain or evacuate water.
(NAN)

Volleyball: JVC Bauchi eye Premier League ticket
The Coach JVC volleyball club of Bauchi, Monday Dada has said his team is eager to gain promotion to the Nigerian Premier League.
The coach made this known Wednesday after his side defeated Oyo State 3-1 (25-23, 25-21, 28-30, 25-22) at the ongoing 2021 National Division 1 Volleyball League in Kaduna.
He said based on the calibre of players in the team, JVC of Bauchi belongs to the Premier League class.
“JVC of Bauchi is in the Division 1 league to gain promotion to next season’s premier league because that is where the big guns are and that is what we are aiming for.
“We do not expect anything apart from getting the ticket,” he said.
Dada also took responsibility for the failure of his team to beat Kwara State on Tuesday as he said it was due to his technical mistakes.
In other matches played yesterday, Spartans Spikers of Yola lost 2-3 (21-25, 22-25, 25-17, 25-21, 12-15) to Kwara United, Katsina United spanked Caliphate Spikers of Sokoto 3-1 (25-23, 25-19, 22-25, 25-12) while Kada Kings thrashed Equity Spikers of Kebbi 3-0 (25-14, 25-15, 25-14).

What Kano needs in 2023
Kano needs to chart a new path to development in 2023.
This is because the state is sliding into the pit of poverty.
Our rich pre-colonial history indicates that Kano was the richest of all Hausa states because of state involvement in the economy.
Although, the colonialists destroyed the economic foundation of Kano and other colonised societies the policies of those who led the Native Authority from 1926 to 1963 contributed to maintaining Kano as the leading economic centre of Northern Nigeria.
For example, they established the first modern water treatment plant in the region in 1931, the first independent power plant in Northern Nigeria of 15mw and for over 80 years, no similar one has been established in Northern Nigeria.
They established the first industrial estate in the Northern Region, they inherited one primary school in 1926 and by 1963 every village had a primary school (hundreds), they established secondary schools, they inherited no hospital (but one dispensary) and by 1963 there were two general hospitals and hundreds of dispensaries in every village headed by Dagachi had one.
They laid the foundation of modern Kano.
Politically, they made the NPC to become the ruling party of Nigeria.
From 1966 to 1979 and 1984 to 1999, Kano still maintained its position as second to Lagos.
Kano does not have control over macro-economic policies but its leaders can provide the enabling environment for economic growth.
For example, the Dawanau Market, which is the largest grains market in West Africa bringing people from all parts of the continent from as far as Gabon and Congo.
This was all as a result of the foresight of Alhaji Bashari Garko (may Allah bless his soul), who established the market.
The three administrations that governed Kano from 1999 to date, could all claim that each one of them was the best thing that has happened to Kano but why has Kano degenerated to number nine in Nigeria?
There is no single project that has brought any significant economic change in Kano despite several efforts by concerned individuals.
If there is elite focus and determination, with state leadership as it was in the pre-colonial period, Kano would not have gone down to number nine in Nigeria with a GDP of $13.30b after Lagos ($46.03b), Rivers ($32.14b), Delta ($25.48b), Oyo ($21.64b), Imo ($20.64), Edo ($17.50b), Akwa Ibom ($15.26) and Ogun ($13.82).
The catastrophe in the next 10 years if not averted now, will be beyond our imagination.
This is because of many reasons, one of which is we have over four million pupils in public basic schools (primary and JSS) and by 2033 they would have completed secondary education.
Assuming only 10 per cent of them (400,000) will proceed to higher-level can the government fund their education?
After completing higher education, can the economy absorb them with gainful employment?
At the current state of development, it cannot.
This is because, there are over 250 medical doctors and over 1000 nurses sponsored by the state government, who could not be absorbed despite the need.
We keep deceiving ourselves with so-called skills acquisition programmes that train artisans who will not get any job after acquiring the skills because the local economy cannot absorb them.
Every day we hear billions allocated by the federal government for one economic programme or the other and yet our ideas are never beyond training plumbers, carpenters, mechanics etc.
Our ideas, so far, are not about harnessing resources for the employment of a larger population as Gajimasu (1095-1135) did when he started the city walls.
We have to think out of the box.
Kano does not need a superhuman being with the best qualifications and experience or a saint as the next governor.
This is because the governors in the last 20 years possessed some of the best qualities and might have even done their best but as we can all see, the outcome has not been the best for the state.
Therefore, we must think out of the box.
The two parties APC and PDP cannot provide the desired leadership because they are controlled by godfathers, not ideologically driven, but mainly concerned with sharing of state resources.
The best they can offer is to negotiate for a governor who will serve the interest of a godfather or a clique.
Therefore, the two parties are not the best options.
A very good person could emerge using his resources or with the help of other well-meaning patriotic people.
He could win through any efforts including negotiating with even any of the two parties or another party.
This is a possibility.
It has happened before.
An example, in the neighbouring Kaduna State, is Nasir Elrufa’i.
He is one of the best in his generation but security in the state is beyond him because he depends on his personal intelligence and capacity.
A better person than him in Kano will not make it the desired place unless certain fundamentals are changed.
I do not claim to have all the answers or even to be exclusively original in the ideas below.
Some of them are even modifications of Aminu Kano’s ideas.
There are many better ideas in the minds of more intelligent people.
The ideas I am suggesting are based on my little experience as a labourer of politicians and some training outside this country.
Kano is on the crossroad, therefore, these ideas could be useful.
Some people need to come together and organise a political movement not owned by any individual but people willing to sacrifice.
It should kindly consider the suggestions below:
i)
There is a need to initiate political organisation at the lowest level and making the members own it.
No material reward but sacrifice.
This is possible with mobilisation and the right messages.
ii)
Before the election, the movement or party must take a comprehensive inventory of the state and design a comprehensive action plan with specific measurable targets.
There should be operational guidelines for all appointees including the governor, which must be popularised for every citizen to know and challenge if breeched.
iii)
No one who seeks any position should be given such a position in the movement or party from the lowest level to the highest.
Some will argue this kills ambition.
What is needed now is not ambition but a sustainable system owned by the people.
Similarly, no one should be given any position until he fulfils certain basic conditions of competence and honesty as well as bringing references and guarantors.
iv)
All public officials must publicly declare their assets and those of their family members on the assumption of office, which must be verified by forensic experts.
Their salaries, expenses (including travels, entertainment etc) must be made public periodically.
v)
No one who becomes a governor or attains any position should ever be allowed to act unilaterally.
The governor must never be allowed:
a)     To make appointments unilaterally.
There must be criteria, expectations or set targets for such appointments for periodic assessments and evaluations; 
b)
All contracts must be transparently awarded after evaluation by experts from within and outside the bureaucracy.
c)
Allocations of plots must also be transparent.
d)
No governor should be allowed to have absolute control of the treasury and it should be administered by competent staff.
The governor should only be seen as the leader who guides institutions to develop and end one-man rule.
If the governor is liberated from this prison of power, he will lead the state to greatness.
He will lead by example and corruption will be minimised because the avenues of abuse of power have been blocked.
A governor should be seen to supervise public servants and ensure everyone performs his duties diligently.
He should inspire his people with exemplary lifestyles, commitment to service and transparency.
By Ibrahim Ado-Kurawa, the Editor,
Nigeria Year Book and Who is Who

Niger republic, 6 other countries lose right to vote in UNGA -Guterres
Niger and six other nations lost their right to vote in the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) because they have not paid their dues, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has said.
The other countries losing their UNGA voting rights are Iran, Libya, the Central African Republic, Congo Brazzaville, South Sudan and Zimbabwe, the Jerusalem Post reported on Tuesday.
Three more countries – Comoros, Sao Tome and Principe and Somalia – will be allowed to continue to vote despite missing dues payments, because they sufficiently demonstrated that they are incapable of paying.
Guterres wrote a letter to General Assembly President Volkan Bozkir of Turkey that the countries in arrears to the UN will have their UNGA voting rights suspended in accordance with the UN Charter.
The Charter stipulates the suspension of voting rights if a member state fails to pay its fees for more than two years, the report said.
Under the article, a member-state in arrears in the payment of its dues in an amount that equals or exceeds the contributions of two preceding years can lose its vote in the General Assembly.
Iran owes 16.2 million dollars, more than any other country.
Meanwhile, Iran has blamed U.S. sanctions for blocking the Islamic Republic from paying its required contribution to the UN, the newspaper reported.
Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh said the funds designated for UN payments are frozen in two South Korean banks, due to the U.S. sanctions.
He said the Islamic Republic has a total of USD 7 billion in those banks, the report said.
Khatibzadeh demanded that the UN guarantee the payments are safely transferred without using U.S. banks.
“Given that the United States has encroached upon Iran’s international assets before, the Islamic Republic of Iran insists that the UN not use an American intermediary bank to receive our country’s membership fee.
”
Alternatively, this organization guarantee the financial transfer channel,” Iran International News quoted Khatibzadeh as saying.
(ANI/NAN)

BREAKING: Paris Saint-Germain win French Cup
Paris Saint-Germain have won the French Cup by beating Monaco 2-0 in Wednesday’s
final at the Stade de France.
Goals from Mauro Icardi and Kylian Mbappe won a largely uninspiring final for PSG who now go into the weekend’s final round of Ligue 1 fixtures with a record-equalling 10th league title still a possibility.
The French champions have now won the French Cup six times in the last seven seasons having reached the final every year since 2015.
It was also the second trophy of coach Mauricio Pochettino’s managerial career after he won the Champions Trophy for PSG in January, although this will for many count as his first major honour.
“We work every day to experience this kind of feeling, reward and recognition,” said Mbappe.
“It’s the work of a whole group, staff, all the people who work every day for us, the club and of course the supporters who couldn’t be there.
“We think a lot about the fans and this title is for them as well.”
Monaco meanwhile continue their wait to win the French Cup for the first time since 1991, in their first final since 2010 when they were also beaten by PSG.
Niko Kovac’s side have however had a positive season and can finish it on a happier note at the weekend by qualifying for the Champions League for the first time since 2018.
(APC)

Maiden Davnotch Tennis Championship attracts 300 players
No fewer than 300 players are expected to participate in the maiden Davnotch National Open Tennis Championship coming up between May 14 and 22 at tennis courts of the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja.
Ifedayo Akindoju, Chairman Caretaker Committee of the Nigeria Tennis Federation (NTF) said this in Abuja on Monday while briefing newsmen on preparations for the championship.
He said about a N3.5million would be raked at the end of the championship as prize by the winners of the various categories.
Akindoju also said that the championship would serve as the federation’s hunting ground for talents for the national team ahead of several international competitions lined up for the federation this year.
“I can tell you the winner of the men’s singles and the ladies’ singles will go home with N500,000 and for the Wheelchair event (male and female), it is N150, 000 each.
“Wheelchair event is not actually an open event, and as such it is for the top 16 athletes in the ladder.
“Recently in Lagos, we had a ladder tournament on wheelchair alone, so we have the latest rankings of all wheelchair players in Nigeria, and because it is closed, we have top 16 in men and top 16 in women to compete in this event.
“We equally have the doubles event for the men; the winner will take home N100,000 and this will be the same for the ladies,” Akindoju said.
According to him, the championship is open for athletes who are 14 years and above.
Also speaking, Emmanuel Ochei, a representative of Davnotch Nigeria Ltd, said the company was sponsoring the championship as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and that it would not relent in lending support for sports development.
(NAN)

NNPC to acquire equity in 6 private refineries
The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has revealed that it is currently considering equity participation in a number of private refineries in the country.
The NNPC in a statement Monday night said the move is in line with a Federal Government’s policy directive, which stipulates the mandatory participation of the Corporation in any privately-owned refinery that exceeds 50,000 barrels per day capacity in keeping with its statutory role of safeguarding national energy security.
In this regard, the Corporation has identified at least six refinery projects in which it intends to seek equity participation, five of them are at the development stage with the Dangote Refinery being the largest of them, the statement said.
The statement by the Corporation’s spokesperson, Dr Kennie Obateru, explained that NNPC’s National Oil Company of Nigeria primarily has a dual role of providing stewardship for the nation’s hydrocarbon resources and adding value to the resources for the benefit of all Nigerians and other stakeholders.
“These roles enable it to achieve the twin objectives of providing energy security for the country and stimulating the nation’s economic development and growth,” Obateru said.
He said that NNPC’s strategic objective to ensure energy security and stimulate economic growth with limited resources requires it to consider strategic partnerships with competent investors in sectors of the oil and gas value chain especially where it currently operates on a sole risk basis.
The oil refining sector is one of such segments where NNPC is revisiting its strategy in order to strengthen domestic refining capacity and guarantee National Energy Security, he added.
He said the new vision is to grow domestic refining capacity, improve petroleum products supply from our local refineries and become a net exporter of petroleum products.
The Corporation assured that the move to seek equity participation in the private refineries would not undercut its commitment to the rehabilitation of its own refineries and strengthen the domestic refining sector.
Obateru stressed that the overall goal is to boost the nation’s refining capacity with a view to becoming a net exporter of petroleum products in the soonest possible time and boosting the nation’s economy.

Amaechi, Lai Mohammed inspect Lagos-Ibadan rail project ahead of commissioning
Minister of Transportation, Mr Rotimi Amaechi and his Information and Culture counterpart,
Alhaji Lai Mohammed are inspecting the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge project ahead of the commissioning by President Muhammadu Buhari.
Daily Trust reports that though no specific date has been fixed for the commissioning, it has been slated for June.
Our correspondent gathered that the $1.7bn project with extension to the Lagos Ports in Apapa might be commissioned on or before June 12 to commemorate Democracy Day.
This was why the Ministers are conducting another inspection to ensure that all the finishing touches on the project were fully carried out.
Daily Trust had earlier reported how the China Civil Engineering and Construction Corporation (CCECC), the contractor handling the project, has been pressured to deliver all the 10 stations ahead of the commissioning.
The stations are Ebute-Metta, Apapa, Agege, Agbado, Kajola, Papalanto, Abeokuta, Omi Adio, Olodo and Moniya.
Most of the stations have reached almost 90 to 100 per cent completion stage while only finishing touches were being done.
The Ministers, as well as the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Transport, Dr Magdalene Ajani, Managing Director of the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), Engr Fidet Okhiria and other officials of the Ministry, started the inspection from the Mobolaji Johnson Station (Ebute-Metta) before heading to the Bola Tinubu Station (Apapa).
The Ebute-Metta Station is the biggest station in the train corridor.
The Ministerial team inspected all the convenience facilities, the operational rooms, the nursing room, the waiting areas, among others.

Zimbabwe loses 2 more ministers to COVID-19
Two ministers serving in the Zimbabwean government died of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) within a matter of days, prompting the country to announce on Saturday plans to further tighten lockdown measures.
Late on Friday, the government announced that Transport Minister, Joel Matiza, had died after falling ill with COVID-19, less than two days after the country lost Foreign minister Sibusiso Moyo to the same disease.
Four government ministers have succumbed to the coronavirus in Zimbabwe so far.
According to unconfirmed media reports, several other cabinet ministers are fighting for their lives in a private hospital.
“We are in a dark cloud that we have to clear very soon,” deputy health minister John Mangwiro told dpa.
Mangwiro revealed plans to intensify the current lockdown, which has been in place since early January and includes a strict nightly curfew.
Restaurants, bars and gyms have also been forced to close.
Lockdown enforcement
“We have seen people not adhering to the lockdown regulations announced early this month,” he added.
Zimbabwe has registered 30,523 cases of infection since the start of the pandemic, including 962 deaths.
The numbers may seem relatively low compared to other countries.
However, the outbreak is putting the nation’s health system under considerable pressure.
Zimbabweans have taken to the social media to blame President Emmerson Mnangagwa and his predecessor, the late Robert Mugabe, for the country’s dilapidated health infrastructure.
Health workers recently went on strike over a lack of protective equipment and poor salaries.
(dpa/NAN)

How Kaduna’s N2tr economy struggles with shutdown
Kaduna state, especially its metropolis witnessed what was described as a major shutdown on Monday as the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) protested the mass sack of workers by the state government.
There are fears that the shutdown which affected the transport, finance and power sectors could affect the robust economy of the state believed to be among the top performers in Nigeria.
According to a statistics report by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) released in 2019, as of 2017, Kaduna has a nominal Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of N2.69 trillion and ranked as the 10th largest economy in Nigeria.
Services and agriculture dominated the GDP by N1.37tr.
However, these services were worst affected by the mass shutdown yesterday which became widespread since Sunday.
According to a 2020 report by the Oxford Business Group, since 2015, the state has attracted investments in excess of $800 million.
At the moment, companies have committed to investing about $2.1 billion over the next two years.
In terms of IGR, the Oxford Business Group report quoted Governor Nasir el-Rufai as saying the state doubled its IGR from N13bn in 2015 to N26bn in 2017.
It further rose to N44bn in taxes in 2019 after the tax process became simplified through legislation.
Daily Trust further learnt that some of the industries outside the city centre were not affected.
Olam Farms located on the outskirt of the Kaduna – Abuja road was not affected as its staff members were in the office yesterday after the Sallah break
“We are aware of the situation
but you know we are not really in the city centre
, so I don’t think we need to bother ourselves at least for now,” said a senior official.
Billions lost already
Meanwhile, experts said billions of naira would have been lost to the grounding of businesses in the state.
An ex banker and economist said the strike would have been avoided if the state governor had negotiated with the unions.
“Goods are transported to the north through Kaduna and from the north through Kaduna to other parts of Nigeria.
Imagine the losses because of the power outage, the logistics, transportation and others.
It runs into billions imagine the hospitals, hotels, transportation, micro businesses that have shut down.
The economy is crippled.
It will further increase the very bad security situation.”
John Okon, another analyst said over N50 million may have been lost in the two days so far especially as power outages persisted and fuel stations were shutting down.
By Chris Agabi, Simon Echewofun Sunday & Hussein Yahaya

Arteta must deliver next season
As I have already mentioned, Arsenal do not intend to sack Mikel Arteta and the club management will back him to turn the Gunners around next season.
No one can say for certain if Arsenal have made the right decision but the club intends to bring in more talented players this summer.
Serious questions are being asked about the manager’s ability and even in his own dressing room players are looking at him and wondering if he is the right man for the job.
At 39 years-of-age Arteta has a reputation, built alongside Pep Guardiola, as a brilliant coach.
However, after seventeen months in charge the fortunes of Arsenal have not progressed and many would argue that the team performances are inferior to those of Unai Emery, the man he replaced and who knocked him out of the Europa League.
Arteta captained Arsenal and was welcomed by the fans as their new champion but they are getting restless and agitated as they watch Chelsea and Tottenham move further ahead.
The Super League disaster will not be forgotten for a long time
but I can tell you that the Kroenke owners are going nowhere
so it is up to Arteta to mend bridges, build a strong team and get his tactics right next season otherwise the proud Gunners could well crash and burn.
De Gea won’t accept being No2
Despite Manchester United goalkeeper David De Gea having a contract until 2023 his agents are testing the waters to see which clubs would be interested in signing him.
I am hearing from inside Old Trafford that despite being on good terms with current No1 Dean Henderson, De Gea will not sit back and accept a role on the bench for much longer.
I am picking up interest from Atletico Madrid, Paris Saint Germain and Real Madrid.
The 30-year-old is arguably at the peak of his career although some inside the club believe he has declined slightly over the past two years.
Manager Solskjaer said, “Goalkeeper departments are a very tight knit group.
They work in preparation, they have different gym sessions, individual sessions to the rest of the squad and they stay together more.
Naturally they create a bond and the spirit in the goalkeeping department has been top.
It’s a healthy competition.”
I am sure the coach is right however if De Gea doesn’t regain recognition for the No1 stitched onto the back of his shirt and is left on the bench in crucial games, I am reliably informed he will move out of Old Trafford.
I take West Brom to bounce back yet again
After one season back in the Premier League we again say goodbye to West Bromwich Albion.
The key to yet another quick bounce back from the Championship will be whether or not fire-fighting manager Sam Allardyce can be persuaded to stay.
He is disappointed to have lost his reputation as never having been relegated with any club and the board at West Brom have a lot of work to do if they want to keep him.
Ainsley Maitland-Niles, Conor Gallagher and Okay Yokuslu will return to their parent clubs after being on loan but Matheus Pereira, Callum Robinson, Hal Robson-Kanu and Karlan Grant can impress in the lower league.
Fastest man at City
Who is the fastest player in the Manchester City squad?
No, it isn’t Raheem Sterling.
Manager Pep Guardiola set up a practice whereby each player had to control the ball and sprint 10 yards.
There are some very fast movers in the City squad but Gabriel Jesus proved he was the fastest.
The best is yet to come from Havertz
Thomas Tuchel has been singing the praises of Kai Havertz and pointed to his two goals recently scored against Fulham.
Tuchel recognises that since Kai arrived at Stamford Bridge from Bayer Leverkusen, things have not gone well for the German.
Moving from a foreign country and having to handle lockdown restrictions made things difficult and of course he caught Covid-19 and had to battle back to fitness.
The upcoming Champions League final and the next pre-season, Tuchel believes, will show the best of the attacking midfielder and forward.
Solskjaer is turning United into winners again
Manchester United might have big problems with the fans actively showing aggression  towards the owners but inside the club there is a new belief, a new harmony and renewed confidence that they can achieve.
The man responsible is Ole Gunner Solskjaer and after speaking with many United staff and supporters this week, everyone recognises that it is time to praise the manager for achieving so much in the last eighteen months.
Solskjaer paved the way to sign Bruno Fernandes and Edinson Cavani and both have proven to be excellent additions to United’s line-up.
Cavani has confirmed that he is staying for another season and it is mainly his belief in Solskjaer which has persuaded him.
Paul Pogba looks settled and happy and his relationship with the manager is at an all-time high.
When United fall behind in a matches these days, they get back up, fight and more often than not they win.
There is one thing to thank out-going Executive Vice-Chairman Ed Woodward for and that is allowing Solskjaer time to succeed in the job, survive the rough patches and turn his players into winners.
Solskjaer is now the most important and the strongest foundation brick of the revitalised United and critics, staff and fans believe this is the beginning of a golden era for the Reds.
Tell-tale sign
Kane thinking about leaving
I noticed a significant silence during the match against Leeds at the weekend.
Harry Kane usually runs as much, if not more, than any other player and constantly barks out orders and instructions to other players to play more effectively.
Against Leeds he was very quiet and more so than I think I have ever seen him.
I suspect this is a tell-tale sign that Harry is seriously doubting his tenure at Spurs and is already looking for a way out.
Wolves desperate for a striker
Nuno Espirito Santos has at last recognised that during the transfer window he must prioritise signing a new striker.
Winger Pedro Neto and midfielder Ruben Neves are the leading scorers which pinpoints the weakness in Wolves strike force.
Fabio Silva and Raul Jimenez are next on the list however Jimenez has been out of action since November after fracturing his skull.
Wolves have 13 goals less this season than last year.
The Wolves board have promised Nuno money to sign a proven goalscorer.
Jimenez by the way will be told on May 18th if he is medically safe to play in the final two games of this season.
He has been training for two months but was banned from heading the ball and having physical contact with his teammates.
Sir Alex praises McTominay
When the great Sir Alex Ferguson speaks about Manchester United he is always worth listening to.
His admiration for Scott McTominay is immense and the master says the midfielder should automatically play in every United game.
“Scott McTominay is now emerging as one of United’s big players,” Sir Alex said.
“When you watch United pick their team for an important game, McTominay’s name is in it.
He’s a good character and a great trainer.
I signed him when he was just a kid of seven or eight years of age
and he was actually a centre-forward.”
What higher praise can a player receive.
Three astonishing football facts…
*Manchester United have not lost an away game in the PL for a year and four months!
*If they do not win their next game, Sheffield United will become the first team since the 1904-05 season to have gone without winning two consecutive games.

