English
Can I ask a favor?
Regular exercise promotes better health.
Widening my circle of friends has given me the opportunity to mature as a person.
When is the last time you wrote a love letter?
The captain welcomed us.
Ostriches can't fly.
I didn't go to the zoo.
Joojo woke up naked.
There's a lot of trash on the far bank of the river.
We were running multiple businesses and had gone into debt over our heads.
I don't remember anyone named Joojo.
Ask yourself, ‘Is there a void in my marriage that has made me vulnerable to an inappropriate friendship?
Ensure that all your drinking water—including the water used for brushing teeth, making ice, washing food and dishes, or cooking—comes from a safe source, such as an adequately treated public supply or sealed bottles from a reputable firm.
I want you to come with us.
Many are anxious about exams and school grades. Still others see their family torn apart by divorce.
Joojo lacks experience.
In this case, fairness is reduced to a mathematical formula. Teenagers, however, realize that the concept is not that simple.
This plant is indigenous to Canada.
My father drives a very old car.
Just hang in there.
The whale is a very large mammal which lives in the sea.
Joojo twisted his ankle and it swelled up.
You have a friend of the opposite sex who really understands you.
Joojo isn't a liar.
Can I see you again?
Avoid heavy meals, caffeine, and alcohol before bedtime.
There's a slight difference.
Children are so proficient at using technology that they are commonly called “digital natives,” while adults who are less adept at using technology are referred to as “digital immigrants.
I began to have pleasant dealings with them, and I started to view them differently. Still, prejudicial feelings can surface.
During a conflict, spouses with such attitudes may view each other as adversaries rather than allies and use words that hurt rather than heal.
Schedule some downtime. Even short breaks can reinvigorate you and reduce your stress.
Sexting​—sending or receiving explicit personal images, usually via smartphone—​can have legal consequences.
The doctor is concerned.
He has no eye for women.
If they maintain this stance, estrangement may develop.
At their place of employment, Alex and Brian each work hard on separate projects.
They applied some practical principles that have helped many friendships not only to survive rocky times but also to grow even stronger afterward.
Whoever comes will be welcome.
It takes a lot of time to get used to married life.
I want the same jacket as you are wearing.
When we have a healthful exercise routine, we show our Creator that we appreciate the body that he gave us.
I was embarrassed to face my former coworkers after I had talked about moving on to ‘greener pastures.
To illustrate the challenge of discerning whether we might harbor a hidden prejudice, imagine the following scenario: You are walking down a street alone in the dark of night. Two young men whom you have never seen before are approaching you. They look strong, and one of them appears to have something in his hand.
Please endorse this check.
It seemed too good to be true.
Doing so might give you leverage to ask your employer to do the same in return, including keeping your workload within the agreed limits.
What teams were playing?
I'm 17, too.
When we started out, we only had six employees.
Can I help you?
She is dressed like a bride.
Joojo is generous with his time.
For example, instead of saying, “That’s nothing to worry about!” say, “I can see how much this bothers you.
I'm looking forward to receiving your reply.
I really wanted to go.
There used to be a prison here.
Have a realistic view of work and money. More money does not mean more happiness or less stress. In fact, the opposite can be true.
Help your child put things in perspective. For example, what would he do if he failed a test at school? He might give up, saying, “I can’t do anything right!”
I hate doing this.
Before and after treating a wound or a cut.
That is his car.
It's important to read a lot of books.
Joojo spit out the poison.
How about adding a touch of pepper?
Self-control includes the ability to delay gratification, restrain impulses, complete unpleasant tasks and put others before self
He is his friend.
I thought you were raised in L.A.
Many husbands and wives were raised in homes where hurtful speech was common.
I'm not interested in your opinion.
There are lots of things to do.
I had just written the letter when he came back.
Do you know how to eat with chopsticks?
You should get to school.
Joojo likes cats.
Prediabetes is not harmless, however. Besides being a precursor to type 2 diabetes, it has recently been linked to an increased risk of dementia.
The commander refused to negotiate.
I gave Joojo all my money.
Joojo was able to get there in less than twenty minutes.
Please drop by and see me.
Too much stress can lead to high blood pressure, heart attack, stroke
That guy is off his rocker!
Help your child to see where he is wrong and to acknowledge it.
The blind nurse devoted herself to caring for the elderly.
It's a cultural thing.
Can you find her?
Joojo deposited some money in the bank.
Do your children seem overly attached to their devices? How can you help them make better use of their time?​
Who'll take care of the dog while we are gone?
Those suffering from burnout tend to withdraw emotionally from their work, lose motivation, and become less productive.
He has decided not to go to the meeting.
You probably know that an unbalanced diet can damage your health.
He has a strong constitution.
Stress is your body’s response to a demanding situation. Your brain causes hormones to flood your system.
I'm not who you think I am.
He speaks German, not to mention English.
It took time, but now I have a balanced diet.
The streets are flooded.
I can't afford to buy such an expensive car.
You're quite a liar.
After all, not everybody has a good family life. That helped our daughter to see that she is not better than others. She may just have better circumstances
Our friends are not perfect, but neither are we. Therefore, we should never expect or demand perfection from the people we befriend.
Why do some wives choose to remain with a violent mate? A common reason is that they fear the abuse will get worse if they leave.
Perhaps your spouse avoids talking about such issues, leaving you frustrated and vulnerable to the attention of someone else.
She adds: “Research consistently finds that money cannot buy happiness​—after you reach a subsistence level, income is not significantly related to life satisfaction.
Joojo and Efua fell in love and decided to get married.
He kicked his shoes off without untying them first.
Will that briefcase hold many books?
Everybody in the room let out a sigh of relief.
Do you know this song?
We used to go skating every weekend.
Listen for the message behind the words. Notice your mate’s body language and tone of voice
Why hide my hardships behind a mask of optimism?
Your child will see how you respond to unpleasant or frustrating situations.
Joojo suddenly stopped dead in his tracks.
The office is full of competent people.
I told you it was a bad idea.
She fainted, but came to after a few minutes.
Someone has to pay the bill.
We drank a lot.
According to the Mayo Clinic, “one of the best ways to avoid getting sick and spreading illness” is to wash your hands.
Emphasize that serving others is a privilege.
Too much stress can lead to diabetes, lower immunity and increased illness, mood swings, weight gain
Joojo was probably joking.
We tried to get him to change his mind, but couldn't.
Everybody applauded.
Reminisce about activities you once enjoyed together. Look at old photographs.
If a work associate stresses you, look for ways to improve the situation. For example, could you kindly and tactfully tell the person how he or she makes you feel?
I'm really happy you could come.
You will do it whether you like it or not.
Suppressing grief can be harmful. Jeannie, mentioned at the outset, says: “I thought I had to be strong for my little sister, so I buried my emotions. Even today, I tend to suppress painful feelings, and that’s not healthy.”
She loves coffee.
A general guide would be that moderate activity makes you sweat, but more vigorous exercise makes it hard for you to hold a conversation while doing it.
When you cooperate with each other and apply Bible principles, you can handle any problem successfully.
Consider Frank and Jerry’s predicament. Basically, their friendship began to unravel when they took several wrong steps: (1) Jerry was inconsiderate, (2) Frank expressed his annoyance in a way that upset Jerry, (3) both lost their temper, and (4) both refused to yield.
Stress is a natural response that enables you to deal with challenging or dangerous situations.
I was left behind.
She explains how empathy helped her: “When I saw the hardships suffered by those who belonged to lower castes, I asked myself how I would feel in their position.
Yesterday a friend of mine told me a surprising story.
I am very busy practicing after school.
How much money did you win?
My sister went against my parents’ wishes and demanded more than her share. Because I chose to honor my parents’ instructions, she exploded with anger and threats.
Wait. Don't go.
Make your bedroom quiet, dark, relaxing, and neither too warm nor too cold.
Have you ever ridden a horse?
Discuss with him what he can do to help them. Commend and support your child as he serves others.
How you listen is very important. Try to understand your mate’s point of view with “fellow feeling . . . and humility.
Block inappropriate content to the extent possible
I think it's possible that he may come.
The lesson? Thinking too much of yourself is more likely to lead to failure than success.
The problem? One or both of you may not know how to forgive.
Growth and development in children and teenagers.
Put away (or silence) the phone when conversing with others
Exercise can improve your outlook.
Joojo does a good job.
We went for walks, and we got healthier. Eventually, we began working part-time and doing volunteer work.
It's the first time in my life I've felt so connected with someone.
I've got to make lunch.
Let me carry it.
If you really need a job, why don't you consider working for Joojo?
Help your children to understand consequences, both good and bad.
The game may have been put off till next week.
I always thought of my friend Thomas as a pleasant and honest person. I never had any problem with him until he bought my used car.
How many operations has Dr. Jackson performed this month?
You don't have to believe me.
Let's go there on Monday.
A lot of people were waiting for him.
Limit your intake of solid fats from such items as sausages, meat, butter, cakes, cheese, and cookies.
I’ll be happy when I get married and have children.
I'm sure it can be done.
I know it's crazy, but it's true.
This may be difficult for some of your relatives to accept.
The examination began with Oral English with the observance of the COVID-19 safety protocols.
Efua doesn't have a husband.
Write about the parent you lost. For example, what is your most cherished memory of that person? Write about his or her commendable qualities. Which ones would you like to imitate in your life?
Consider some practical advice that can help us to be more impartial.
That's Joojo's brother.
Joojo frequently speaks with Araba.
I still want to be here.
That is a ship.
This skill is acquired through experience.
To avoid cross-contamination, never put food on a surface or plate that was previously in contact with raw eggs, poultry, meat, or fish, without first washing that surface.
Blood vessels dilate or constrict to direct blood where your body needs it the most, such as in your muscles.
Being that early, many people would’ve slept, snoring away.
Let's eat together tonight.
Being active benefits your cardiovascular and respiratory systems.
Was that intended as a joke?
In fact, on occasion it has been used to bring together people whose friendship has faded for some reason. In a sense, a communal meal is a way of saying, “We are now at peace.
Joojo likes learning French.
I woke up at sunrise.
The Internet has made lewd content easily available and accessible. Parents should realize that while filters can help, they are not foolproof.
In Cameroon, this custom is a powerful symbol of unity.
I love sleep, but it’s hard to get enough with such a busy schedule.
Could I have a piece of cheesecake?
I told him to leave the room.
It'll take some time, but eventually Joojo will be able to walk again.
Every member must attend.
Send out clear signals that you are already committed—perhaps by keeping photographs of your spouse at work.
He plunged into the water head first.
I told her to think of what that girl might be going through at home.
Just as a cell phone needs to be recharged in order to keep working, you need adequate sleep in order to be at your best
Don't take it out on me.
Is eating egg yolks really that unhealthy?
By clarifying your priorities, you prepare yourself to make difficult decisions and accept trade-offs.
A true friendship cannot flourish without regular communication. So talk together about the interests you share.
But others say that daytime napping has the opposite effect. Find out what works best for you.
Demonstrate by your example that self-control leads to better outcomes.
Let's go by bus.
My teacher asked the class what time everyone went to bed. Most said about 2:00 a.m. Others said about 5:00 a.m. Only one student said 9:30 p.m.
This would embarrass anyone.
We combat envy by cultivating genuine humility and modesty, which enables us to appreciate and value the abilities and good qualities of others. “Do nothing out of contentiousness or out of egotism,”
Joojo doesn't know anyone at our school.
After Joli was arrested, they both confessed to kidnapping a victim (name with) with two other gang members who are on the run and demanded for a ransom of GHC5, 000.
Even if I wanted to, I couldn't do that.
Joojo went to the gym three days a week.
They genuinely care about you.
It would be great fun.
Joojo is a conservative.
Laziness can contribute to poverty. Therefore, be a diligent worker, and to the extent possible, plan your financial future.
Efua will make a good nurse.
It's time you faced reality.
Increasingly the internet is proving to be a dangerous place to visit. It is a haven for pedophiles, bullies, trolls and hackers,” says a newspaper
This door leads to the garden.
Joojo looks like he's too tired to help us right now.
You should know it.
I'm an agent.
I'm really angry.
I realized too late that I needed Joojo's help.
She kept on talking.
Much tension can be avoided if we don’t respond to our mate in a contentious tone.
They're old friends.
It seems we are in the same boat.
I don't believe Joojo can do that.
I almost got caught a few times.
The prominent psychologist resembles my uncle in appearance.
I'm leaving in ten minutes.
You're not old enough to get a driver's license.
There is a beautiful park near my home.
Do I find it difficult to be generous with my money?
ry to see things in a different light. What stresses you may not stress someone else. The difference may be in viewpoint.
I know what that is.
Joojo seems quite upset.
‘How would I react if someone made me feel worthless?’
I am writing a letter now.
Pink is not just for girls.
Joojo used to go to school with Efua.
Joojo left Efua.
This hat will suit her.
I don't think what we did helped.
Joojo, are you okay?
Which list do you want to dwell on at this point in life?” Remember, no one is perfect​—including you.
It's so kind of you to come to see me off.
I am doubtful whether he will come.
We could not see the top of the mountain.
If no water-treatment products are available, add household bleach, eight drops per gallon of water (two drops per liter), mix well, and then let the water stand for 30 minutes before using it.
This is suicide!
When the Romans arrived in the third century B.C.E., they called their newly conquered territory Hispania.
I am coughing.
Grieving may be accompanied by confusing emotions. For example, some people feel anger at the person who died, feeling that the person “abandoned” them.
Let me have a little chat with Joojo.
It adds that such people find it “easier to relate to other people and the wider world.”
There's a secret drawer in the desk.
We should've stayed home with Joojo.
And I took a significant cut in pay. But I gained peace of mind, and I had more time for my family and other things that I truly value.
I want to cook for you.
Have you ever managed a company?
I am from Brazil.
Where is the train?
I'm not always at home on Sundays.
It takes some time to be good at a sport and to enjoy it, but the effort is well worth it.
Joojo is now a happy little boy.
We associate Darwin with the theory of evolution.
Experts believe that fat accumulated in the belly and waist may indicate a higher risk for diabetes.
Though you will always love and respect your parents, your mate is now the most important person on earth for you.
For all that, I found his verbal abuse even more difficult to endure than the physical violence.
We can't find anything wrong with your car.
I think people feel invincible when they are young. It’s hard to imagine a time when you will have health problems.
The two chuckled.
He's the ambassador to Haiti.
But that approach can deprive your body of the very nutrients it needs.
Am I attracted to get-rich-quick schemes?
I thought they were angry with me because I didn't help them wash the car.
I'm all tuckered out.
I don't like your name.
Joojo wanted to become a lawyer.
On another occasion, I beat her so badly that I thought I had killed her.
Joojo slammed the closet door closed.
In fact, we were no more created to rule over our fellow humans than we were created to live under water or in outer space!
The bottom line: False success is based on image; true success is based on proper values.
As we thought, she had gone abroad.
Second, understand that quite often things do not turn out the way we may fear they will.
So I avoid news reports that put that ethnic group in a negative light. Also, I do not watch movies or popular comedies that mock them. I know that prejudicial feelings can grow into anger and hatred.”
I did the job in three days.
Don't talk about people behind their backs.
I had a huge dog.
I'd love to see the movie.
Identify what stresses you, and note your response. For example, when you feel stressed, note your thoughts, feelings, and behavior, perhaps even making a record of them.
In a sense, you rob your spouse of the affection you owe him or her.
I was expecting it!
Joojo fastened his seatbelt.
I've worked out a good plan.
If you have become too close to a member of the opposite sex, end the relationship.
Could that be true of you? How would you answer that question?
You must keep your room tidy.
Before you are fully aware of what is happening, your body is primed for action.
In the 599 cases examined, 74 percent of the alleged perpetrators admitted that their objective in using these sites was to have sex with minors.
He left his wife and children.
I share a bedroom with my sister.
Two persons have been arrested by security officials at the Korle Bu Teaching Hospital for stealing blood.
Joojo'll speak.
She is interested in music.
WHY ARE MANY INFORMED PEOPLE CONCERNED ABOUT OUR FUTURE AND THAT OF THE EARTH? CONSIDER JUST SOME OF THE CHALLENGES FACING US.
Do I resort to lying or to other unethical practices in order to make money?
My cat has a big, white, bushy tail.
It's time we moved on.
Both conditions are unhealthy, but there is a difference: Although diabetes can be controlled, it cannot yet be cured.
The top U.S. export to China was soybeans.
That's the same story as I heard when I was a child.
There is something I don't understand.
Who taught Joojo how to speak French?
Ironically, people who learn that lesson seem to be the most fulfilled,” writes Dr. David Walsh.
He wrote down her name in the notebook.
He was nearly run over by a car.
I think I'm pregnant.
Those are my shoes.
We really need to be patient. When we are, we find that things get sorted out
Make your bed as comfortable as possible.
It has been ten years since I left Japan.
Good friends always appreciate a listening ear. Monopolizing the conversation, however, conveys the message that we feel our opinions are more important than theirs.
A nail penetrated the car tire.
That architect builds very modern houses.
I bought this T-shirt on sale.
How hungry are you?
Make up your mind.
[Forty-eight] percent of Europeans believe that too little is done to tackle discrimination in their country.
He taught me how to write.
Joojo is looking for someone to take Efua's place.
Joojo has three French dictionaries.
If you are going to have a party, please count me in.
His dream has become a reality.
I don't want to go on my own.
They should have the right to decide for themselves.
I want to keep my car there.
Replace unhealthy choices. Keep healthy snacks available instead of just grabbing a bag of potato chips with a soft drink.
I have no time to see you.
How much is this camera?
I wish I had the time to stay and talk with you.
I smell bacon.
This is terrible.
Teach your children to say “thank you,” not just with words but with genuine appreciation.
I kept as quiet as possible.
Too much stress can lead to hyperventilation and shortness of breath, as well as panic attacks in those who are prone to them
Unfortunately, we don't have what you want.
They cheated me.
Joojo is playing tennis with Efua.
He comes to Tokyo once a year.
At first, I thought she was sick.
Joojo makes Aku happy.
She'll have to wait for him.
If you are ever in Japan, come and see me.
They hope the situation will improve.
I have no friends.
Some dog owners wonder if it's OK to feed their dogs fish.
I'll see Joojo today.
Joojo needs to return this book by tomorrow evening.
Will she be able to leave the hospital next week?
Do the police have any suspects?
Cholera is most often contracted when a person drinks water or eats food that is contaminated with fecal matter from infected people.
Efua can sew very well.
Does the price of the room include the service charges?
How can I put my mate first and, at the same time, show respect for my parents?
The price of oil is going up.
The thief ran away when he saw a policeman.
I tried to eat it, but I couldn't.
If you see everything negatively, you will feel “afflicted” and every day will appear “bad,” or gloomy. But if you focus on positive things, you will have “a cheerful heart” and even feel joyful.
We have to figure it out.
Joojo has been saving up to buy a yacht.
We have lived in this town for five years.
It's about a ten-minute drive from here.
You will be punished.
You did a very good job.
The crow spread his wings.
Time passes quickly when we are doing something we like.
There's a couple here.
While stress may not affect everyone in the same way, it can contribute to a wide range of diseases. And it can affect nearly every part of the body.
Realistically, though, it is not possible to shield your child from all of life’s adversities.
Check again.
I remember doing that.
Do you think doing that is going to be easy?
Your best defense against such contamination is to wash your hands regularly.
We encourage our daughters to enjoy what they learn in school and simply to do their best without comparing themselves to others.
If you suffer from bouts of loneliness, is your approach more like Andrea’s or more like Brittney’s?
I won't stand for it anymore.
Karen, now 17, recalls: “It was so frustrating not knowing why I would be so happy during the day and later, during the night, I would be crying my eyes out.
Joojo enlisted in the Army.
If you are plagued with negative thoughts—for example, if you cannot stop thinking about something harsh you said to your parent before he or she passed away—write down what you feel and why. For example, “I feel guilty because I had an argument with my dad the day before he died.
Give me a full glass of water.
It was raining yesterday.
I can hardly hear you.
Is there any reason for that?
So when a disagreement arises, they dig in their heels, wondering just how their “perfect match” could possibly see things from a different point of view.
How do you cope with stress? Do you take on more than you can handle and then panic when getting things done?
Spring will be here before long.
Joojo has no intention of apologizing to Efua.
When Joojo stopped for a stop sign, his engine stalled.
The government imposed a new tax on farmers.
We work together.
I'm not sure I want to see this.
Joojo is the only American Efua knows whose father wasn't born in America.
There they discovered a terrain that was totally unlike the tropical islands of Polynesia that they had left behind.
Whatever happens, he won't change his mind.
You are a patient woman.
Humble people are respectful.
I know what I feel.
Where's the nearest art gallery?
Who's in charge of this section?
Derrick was nine when his father died of heart disease.
Pick up that paper there on the floor.
Let's see if we can get this door open.
She has never been in a car driven by him.
Joojo is good at handball.
You were late for work.
Although “digital natives” may use technology with remarkable ease, they still need guidance.
He promised to marry her.
Nothing's working out for me today.
Joojo always insists that he's right even when we all know that he's wrong.
Sleep is a necessity, not a luxury. Without it, the quality of your work—and even the quality of your fun—will plummet!
I promise you I'll never leave you.
She is able to skate.
When you form an improper emotional connection with a member of the opposite sex, you weaken your connection with your spouse.
The climate of England isn't as mild as Japan, but in the summer, it's much cooler.
Joojo is utterly disorientated.
The sun sank below the horizon and it got dark.
I know nothing but this.
I have a feeling that she'll come today.
You are the reason I'm here.
Do you think your parents spent enough time with you when you were in your teens?
If that seems too much to bear, ask yourself why.
I trust you.
I don't understand German.
Young people find genuine satisfaction​—and acquire good training for adulthood—​when they develop resilience.
I’ve had to learn to limit my social activities in the evenings. If I don’t set a time limit for recreation, something is going to suffer, and it’s usually my sleep!
I've spent way too much time thinking about this problem.
I’ve learned to get along with people of all ages and backgrounds, and that has made me more outgoing and adaptable. And my friends really appreciate that.
Joojo doesn't want to travel alone.
The airport is in Osaka Bay.
I was hoping you'd ask.
As humans, we need more than food, clothing, and shelter. We have a spiritual need. To be happy, we must be conscious of that need and attend to it.
Joojo is always getting in trouble.
The family had a hard time after the war.
Let me know if something's missing.
Stressed children may have nightmares, learning difficulties, depression, or a tendency to be withdrawn. Some seem unable to control their emotions. A child suffering from stress needs urgent help.
Are you for or against his idea?
He admitted his guilt.
The pledge to stop smoking cigarettes ranks among the top ten New Year's resolutions year after year.
How much does this book cost?
Prediabetes may have no obvious symptoms. Hence, this condition may go unnoticed. According to reports, about 316 million people around the world have prediabetes; yet, many of them do not realize it.
ANIL was beyond exhausted. He had taken on a new job because it promised greater prestige and more income.
In an effort to beat the competition, though, Cal has become a workaholic and has numerous illnesses.
I'm sorry, but I don't understand English well.
I'll give the room a good cleaning.
I have no problem understanding your French.
Rather than verbally attack your spouse, express your concerns from the standpoint of how you are affected.
I like cold pizza.
Do not just pretend to listen. When possible, put aside what you are doing and give your mate your full attention, or ask if you can discuss this later.
What did I trip over?
He almost died.
Doing so is a primary way to develop maturity.
In many lands, a consumer-oriented society sends the message that happiness is linked to income level and possessions.
Some even say that words can hit harder than fists.
I like your dog.
Seen from the moon, the earth looks like a ball.
Joojo is intellectual.
He has been sick for a week.
The lions roared in their cages.
Do you have any French-speaking employees?
Who did you call?
This handkerchief is made of paper.
Joojo is accustomed to calling up girls on the telephone.
You think I don't know what's going on?
Breakfast is ready.
He knows how to argue with the manager.
Why is exercise important? Staying physically active can help you to: Sleep well, Stay mobile, Maintain strong bones and muscles, Maintain or achieve a healthy weight, Lower your risk of suffering from depression, Lower your risk of premature death,
Surely these give us good reason to want to get enough rest.
Assuming your story is true, what should I do?
I had a trendy office, and I let it go.
There are fifty families in this village.
I have two brothers and one sister.
We want to talk with Joojo.
We don't want to wait any longer.
After sneezing, coughing, or blowing your nose.
How boring!
Live and let live.
Diabetes is a condition that causes a person to have an excessive level of blood sugar.
Remember, she does not have your experience in life, and therefore she has little with which to compare her stresses​—much less develop the skills to address them.​
I am taking tomorrow off.
I think of her day and night.
Joojo was confused by Efua's question.
Repeat each sentence after me.
That island is American territory.
Accept the fact that your friends will make mistakes. When problems arise, we do well to resolve them quickly and try hard to forget.
We're just talking.
We know each other quite well.
I can't do anything but obey him.
I knew it.
Why is it natural for my mate’s parents to be interested in our marriage?
She isn't young anymore. She's at least 30 years old.
Here is the map.
We have some.
Anita, 14 years old, says: “At my age, feeling that you are accepted by a group of friends is crucial and being left out is devastating.
The man committed murder.
Your employer’s priorities and yours are likely different. Others may choose to put work first in their life, but this does not mean that you must do the same.
For instance, in the United States alone, some 90 percent of prediabetes sufferers are unaware of their condition.
I asked my boss for a pay raise.
I forgive you.
Do people like others to dictate how they should view such things as abortion or capital punishment or how they should discipline their children?
‘How would I feel if others judged me before they even got to know me?’
We don't want to scare Joojo away.
What's that flower?
I was born on the 31st of May in 1940.
I am getting off at the next station.
He is going to help you.
He'll get there in ten hours.
Get into the habit of going to bed at a reasonable time each night. Sleep allows your body to repair itself and helps you to be more prepared and alert for the next day.
We must talk her out of this foolish plan.
I hate dealing with children who are picky eaters.
Comb your hair before you go out.
He stared at me and said nothing.
Do I look OK?
The history class starts at nine.
Stand up when your name is called.
This isn't normal.
Efua is tall.
Joojo hurdled the fence.
But this is not impossible and may not be as hard as you might think.
There is no disgrace in being poor.
Joojo always drinks tea in the morning.
You should have told me that before.
I usually wake up at six o'clock.
I wouldn't blame them.
I saw you and Joojo kissing.
My phone is a big reason I neglect my sleep. It’s hard to resist looking at it when I’m in bed.
Six months from now, which one will be a more capable employee—Alex or Brian?
Some fear that the growing inequality might trigger social unrest.
But now Joojo says he doesn't want to go.
We could meet you at 2:30.
We will get to Tokyo before it gets dark.
I think food is expensive in Japan.
Down with the king!
Joojo discovered the secret of life, but he won't tell me.
The excitement that accompanied each purchase would quickly pass, leaving us feeling empty, unsatisfied, and unfulfilled.
There's no point talking to you, because you won't do as I say anyway.
If there is any possibility that your piped supply has been contaminated, boil your water before use or treat it with an appropriate chemical product.
I know how to fix that.
He is hailed as the father of modern anthropology.
Timothy and Charlotte lived in a large home with many rooms.
“When I was younger,” recalls 22-year-old Brittany, “I would write about problems that I just couldn’t work out. That helped me to understand how I really felt about a problem, and then it would be easier either to resolve it or just let it go.
He's not a good person.
We were hoping something interesting would happen.
Do you understand French?
With an elevation of 12,198 feet (3,718 m), Teide Peak, in the Canary Islands, is Spain’s highest mountain. If measured from its base on the seabed, it is the third-tallest volcano in the world.
But these measures, while effective to some extent, do not address underlying causes. After all, behavior usually reflects attitudes, beliefs, and desires.
The point is, do not leave all the communication up to your parents. Do your part. Tell your parents about your day. Ask them about theirs. If you have a complaint, learn how to express it respectfully. Communication is a skill that you will need in adulthood. Why not acquire it now?
I have lived here since 1990.
The house is too big for us, and what is more, it is too expensive.
Please give me something to eat.
She turned away from me.
It is important to listen without prejudice and to respect his or her viewpoint even if we do not agree.
Where's Joojo's umbrella?
This article will review some practical principles that can help you to deal better with stress and perhaps even reduce it.
Do not be sidetracked by what you really said; the issue is how your spouse feels about what you said. Can you think of ways that the hurtful speech could have been replaced with kind expressions?
In a sense, then, resentment is not the result of a marital problem; it is a marital problem.
I think his life is in danger.
I've shut all six windows.
I'm not sure where Joojo is from.
Even during work, I secretly indulge my Internet addiction.
Joojo and Efua need to learn to work together.
Fortune smiled on him.
What causes burnout? Work overload is often a factor. Because of economic pressures, some employers demand that employees work longer hours, at times for less money.
Shut up. If you don't, you'll be thrown out.
They went to church on Christmas Eve.
Oslo is the capital of Norway.
He fell in love with his best friend.
How many English words do you know?
I intend to devote a few hours a day to the study of English.
People who believe myths such as those may point to examples or alleged evidence that seems to confirm their bias. And they think that anyone who disagrees with them is ignorant.
Overcoming your biggest obstacle will take some work, but the results will be worth it.
Do you feel birthdays are important?
We hit a deer.
Joojo is busy making breakfast for the family.
My mother divided the cake into eight pieces.
A number of books were stolen.
Practical wisdom will help you to get creative and find methods that work best for you.
Joojo got drunk and drowned while taking a bath.
This has got to be a joke.
What is the price of this watch?
Threats to Our Safety and Security
Joojo and I work together.
It’s too easy to stay up late and waste time, especially on nights when I go out with friends.
Winning the election was a great victory for the candidate's political party.
On the other hand, if the parent says no and means it, the child learns a basic fact of life​—that we cannot always get what we want.
Do not steal from your employer. Dishonesty could mar your reputation and make it difficult for you to find employment later on.
He says: “I contacted my former employer and asked if he would take me back, and he did.
Joli and Braima indicated that the ransom was paid by the family of the victim but their gang leader known as Borga absconded with the money.
Don't pretend you don't know.
Physical activity releases endorphins—brain chemicals that make you feel relaxed and happy.
Joojo is not a student.
The board is about two meters long.
Have reasonable expectations. Don’t compare yourself to other people.
Joojo ate quietly.
He recommended this dictionary to me.
I know I'm going to die.
If I forgive, I am inviting further mistreatment.
I need to know how to do this.
Come quickly. It's urgent.
Like cultivating a beautiful garden, building a friendship requires a lot of time and care.
How many people die from automobile accidents each year?
I must remind you about your promise.
I like the Brazilian climate.
I don't ever want to see Joojo again.
We won't let you down.
I will miss you.
A great man doesn't care about his appearance.
First of all, may I have your name, please?
I'll be there to help you do that.
She wrote down something in her notebook.
Most newborns sleep for 16 to 18 hours a day, toddlers about 14 hours, and preschoolers about 11 or 12. School-age children generally need at least 10 hours of sleep, adolescents perhaps 9 or 10, and adults from 7 to 8.
This bag is greasy.
My aunt gave me an album.
On the other hand, if you chose only Alex and Janet, you probably measure success by a person’s character traits and work ethic.
It's pretty incredible.
Diligently sticking to your plans is an important key to success. Therefore, plan before spending.
Do you want your parents to extend you more freedom? Do you wish that they really understood you? You can make it easier for them to do both! How? Be willing to tell them what’s going on in your life. Talk openly. When you hold back, they cannot fully trust you—and trust is the key to your getting more freedom.
No one but Joojo handed in the report.
In reality, though, attitude often trumps circumstances and genes when it comes to happiness.
I want life to be the way it was before.
They married when they were young.
He's in the shower.
Everyone in her class likes her.
Efua wants to buy a dress.
What I value most are friends who are willing to spend time with me and listen to me, especially when I have problems
There is a girl reading under a tree.
He told me that I must finish the work by six.
The government was required to pay damages and legal fees to the 17.
Joojo didn't want to hear anything I had to say.
You can use it anytime.
I am not interested.
Because you're a minor, you can't enter.
Please do it quickly.
Of course, what works for one person may not work for another. For example, some say that a short nap during the day helps them sleep better at night.
We've been here long enough.
After investigations, Joli and Braima were arraigned and sentenced accordingly by the court after they had pleaded guilty to conspiracy to kidnap and kidnapping.
I'm going to grab a bite to eat.
This is the most beautiful sunset that I have ever seen.
This new Macintosh computer puts the competition to shame.
Whenever possible, offer solutions that meet both your needs and those of your employer. Reassure your employer of your commitment to your work, and explain what you are willing to do; but be clear and firm about what you are not able to do.
I wasn’t aware that there was anything wrong with the car. Still, he agreed in writing to buy the car as is. Three months later the car broke down.
Closer to the top were such things as good health, good relationships, and a job that you love.
This generation enjoys unprecedented technological, scientific and financial resources . . . And yet this is perhaps the first generation to take the world to the brink of a [political, economic, and environmental] systems breakdown.
Resilience will help your child face life’s challenges with confidence.
I thought Joojo had changed.
Certain fats—in the right amount—can lower your risk of heart disease and keep you feeling your best.
I started doing this work 4 years ago.
Put yourself in your spouse’s position, and try to understand how your words make him or her feel.
Your nervous system causes hormones such as adrenaline and cortisol to be released.
He went to bed the moment he arrived home.
I am sure of his accepting our invitation.
What you are saying is absolutely wrong.
Today I've learned a valuable lesson.
Joojo and Aku have a long distance relationship.
She set the bird free from the cage.
I had hoped to save more money.
I just want to make sure Joojo is all right.
We were shocked at the news of his death.
You breathe faster to take in more oxygen.
If she couldn’t control herself, then she would be removed from others’ company until she could calm down.
We ran into each other at the station.
He brought me back in his car.
The syntax of Python scripts is very simple.
Since I couldn’t change the first two factors, I decided to try to change the last two.
That's my CD, isn't it?
To refuse the householder’s hospitality is considered an insult, while accepting the offer is a compliment.
Some people enter marriage fully believing that life will be like a fairy-tale romance.
I'm going to Spain next week.
Answer the phone.
She took her pencil and started to write.
Decide what practical steps you will each take to solve your problem
We examined our goals and our life situation. We decreased the overhead of our business.
Three pedestrians were victims of an accident.
If I go for a run first thing in the morning, my whole day is more productive and enjoyable. Running lifts my mood.
The lunch is on the table.
After several surgeries to remove a brain tumor, Yanko had physical limitations that affected his movement and speech. Feeling that these would stop him from reaching his goals, Yanko was deeply discouraged for years. Then he changed.
He finally realized that he was wrong.
He couldn't understand the sentence.
For example, “I feel slighted when you make plans without consulting me first” is much more likely to elicit a positive response than “That is just like you—always making plans without consulting me
We're proud of our team.
I know that won't happen again.
From the look on his face, he is in a bad mood now.
Help your child understand that he is more likely to have good outcomes when he practices self-restraint.
Be on time.
We'll be waiting.
At times, he even left me bloodied and unconscious. As a result, I became increasingly angry and violent.
Conversation begins with greeting the family members and asking about their welfare.
The police have been following me.
I don't want to be rich.
I don't want Joojo at my party.
Joojo was wearing his pajamas when he opened the door.
It's possible that Joojo lied to you.
Most of us recognize prejudice in others. But it may be difficult to see it in ourselves.
He's a baseball player.
Instead of seeking prestige, cultivate modesty.
In the long run, these heighten stress, perhaps by robbing you of your health and hard-earned money.
Yaw Muntom of Lele, a suburb of Prang in the Bono East Region, told the police that a quarrel ensued between him and his wife, Efua Jayon, 30, leading to the alleged murder.
That’s why I like to pack my lunch or take a snack with me.
I met one of my friends on my way home.
She is afraid of cats.
You can't kill me.
I can't imagine living like that.
I don't even know him.
In stark nakedness and with his skinny body, Marlay will move from house to house till he gets his first dress to put on.
Are you questioning my plan?
Your body’s internal clock will work for you, but only if you train it. Experts suggest that you go to bed and wake up at the same times each day. Try it for a month, and see how much better you feel.
Do I need an operation?
Others say that this attitude is based on “insufficient information,” which leads to the “prejudgment of members of [a] group.”
May the new year bring you happiness!
The fact is, developing a romantic attachment when you are already married to someone else is destructive.
Be modest, set reasonable standards, and know both your limitations and those of others.
Be generous in showing affection and personal interest. And be willing to sacrifice your time when you are needed.
In spite of the rain, the game was not cancelled.
Listen to married couples whose pattern of speech is worthy of imitation.
Do you think money will buy her happiness?
He turned out to be nothing but a liar.
I can't believe you're going to Joojo's party.
Do you think I'm overweight?
Could you exchange it with another one?
She likes to walk alone.
I must be true to myself.
I knew deep down that it was wrong to kill myself, so I begged God to end my misery.
You should conform to the rules.
A young woman named Vera observes: “A lot of girls save pictures of people they want to look like, and they look at those pictures when they lack motivation.
And do not take it for granted that you are cleaning your hands properly.
I live with my parents.
He lost his patience and hit the boy.
You should wear a helmet when riding a motorcycle.
A fool that considers himself smart is worse than any other fool.
She had her shoes shined.
Ambition and conceit will not help you find true success.
We can't wait two weeks.
SPAIN is a land of diversity in both its landscape and its people.
If Marlay appeared big on sight, it was neither a sign of good living nor an indication that he had had enough food to eat. It was simply people’s many dresses that he had stolen and worn that had turned him into that big dude strolling the streets of Asokwa.
Have you ever been to Mexico?
Is there any bread?
You must follow school rules.
Salt is necessary for cooking.
I am so busy that I can't help you.
Regardless of how old you are, you always need to honor and respect your parents.
I never thought they would accept me.
Joojo sat down on the sand next to Aku.
If you answered yes to any of those questions, make an effort to reject materialistic thoughts and temptations.
I'll hire whoever he recommends.
The girl is smelling the flowers.
You might ask him, “What can you do to improve your understanding of the subject that is being taught?
When poverty comes in the door, love flies out the window is a saying as old as it is sad.
He attacked the government's policy in his speech.
I didn't know he drank so much.
That is rather unexpected.
I'll get in touch with Joojo by telephone tomorrow and ask him to give us a hand.
He is my colleague.
The bucket is full of water.
Cholera is uncommon in Japan.
Joojo resigned.
I was just going to call a cab.
Consider five things that you can do today to get on the road to better health.
This is much worse.
Let's consider the worst that could happen.
I think it's highly unlikely that Joojo will show up today.
Make time to relax. You relieve stress when you do things you enjoy. However, passive recreation, such as watching TV, may not help.
Then, at some point, he will bid the visitor farewell and return home. A guest who does not receive this treatment may feel unappreciated.
Do you know why spring rolls are called spring rolls?
Joojo stayed up all night studying.
We killed time by playing cards.
Braima during interrogations by the police admitted that they were members of a kidnapping gang and subsequently, led the police to Yapei to arrest Joli who escaped when they were stopped by the police patrol team.
When was the last time you made Aku cry?
He has a new car and an old car.
Good results are expected.
I just need to do something.
This feels like silk.
He felt something crawl up his leg.
Which of these two women would you rather have as a friend?
All they had was each other.
Thanks for the flowers.
I'm new here.
Anil, mentioned at the beginning of this article, did so.
I dedicate this song to you.
So I tried to imagine how I would feel if I could not hear someone talking to me. Of course I would have a blank face! Even if I had a hearing aid, my facial expression might seem to indicate, ‘I am struggling to understand,’ when really I would be struggling to hear.
The immigrants dream of having a new, better life.
Joojo is the best at what he does.
May I eat that cake?
I'm not one of your employees.
He needs to be the center of attention.
I want to leave Paris.
Joojo arrived three days ago.
My hobby is reading comics.
It's dangerous to play around the fire.
It took him a while to realize the situation.
Let's stop wasting time.
Burnout is characterized by chronic exhaustion and strong feelings of frustration and powerlessness.
I hope your business trip to France was successful.
By giving that kind of attention to someone else, you have robbed your spouse of the attention he or she should get from you
The British soldiers rested.
Everyone knows that Bell invented the telephone.
We almost froze to death.
A new treatment for hepatitis is being studied.
I don't have time to relax.
Nobody will care.
I'd like to extend my stay through Sunday.
We realize that he or she may feel the way we feel and may react the way we react.
I want to see everything.
I determined to change my lifestyle. I began eating two portions of vegetables before the rest of my meal.
Joojo made it look easy.
For instance, at times you might feel neglected or unappreciated by your spouse, or you may harbor resentment over an unresolved conflict.
Joojo never met Araba.
The smoke vanished with the wind.
If it were not for air, we could not live on the earth.
When he was faced with the evidence, he had to admit that he was guilty.
This movie is suitable for children.
I don't get out much.
After analyzing their work, the supervisor points out key errors in each project.
Joojo is the man Aku met the other day.
I believe he is not guilty of the crime.
Show me what you have in your pocket.
Joojo wants a bicycle.
My head doesn't ache anymore.
This is a harp.
In effect, we would be regarding as inferior those who are different. Once we develop this negative view of others, it becomes difficult to show empathy.
Lean in closer.
IT WAS likely about 800 years ago that Maori tribes traveled across thousands of miles of ocean and settled in New Zealand.
Any food can poison you if it is not prepared and stored properly.
We've already chosen.
He bores everybody.
Nothing is wrong with you.
More and more people are falling behind in their mortgage payments.
A child who learns to perform humble tasks at home is more likely to work well with others as an adult
I wonder why.
Wow! That's cheap!
Have you ever complained to the manager?
I'd like to hear you talk more about that.
Joojo's favorite movie is Dumbo.
For example, you may see that your work is leading to burnout. Yet you may reason, ‘I cannot change jobs or work less; I need the income!’ True, everyone needs income, but how much and at what cost to the things you value most?
Can you speak any Native American language?
Joojo and Aku are having a good time.
I want to find out if Joojo is going to go out and eat with us.
Thus, we might deceive ourselves into believing that we are tolerant of people of all types. Or we might rationalize that we have a valid reason to hold a negative view of people of certain groups.
Joojo is a sensitive child.
Or a person with lesser means might hastily conclude that those who have more are materialistic or greedy. Leanne, a teenager in a relatively wealthy family, was a victim of that type of prejudice.
You can put it anywhere.
Try to get the facts from a reliable source.
An issue tied to nutrition is the risk of food poisoning.
He got mad at me for calling him Shorty.
The anklong is a typical Indonesian instrument; it consists of bamboo pipes loosely mounted in a frame.
I must take something for my cold.
I began to sweat.
My grandfather is in his nineties.
The amount of sleep needed varies from person to person.
That's unbelievable.
Aku is a bad girl.
Please show me another camera.
For example, when I play basketball, I’m focused on the game not on how tired I feel.
Joojo bought Efua a camera.
Joojo made a terrible decision.
Are you feeling tired?
Justice Marful-Sau, 64, died on August 10, 2021 after a short illness.
No one is listening to me.
Time flies.
I admire my husband’s self-control. He always keeps calm and never shouts at me or insults me.
Japanese are Asians.
That just makes me upset, and the conversation snowballs into an argument.
Remember why you're here.
Those girls look like guys.
I felt sorry for her when I heard her story.
From time to time, evaluate your progress
Could you spell it, please?
I don't know what this symbol stands for.
Some misuses of social media can be related to a person’s inordinate desire to be liked or followed. Or if a person finds out he was not included in some way​—for example, he sees he was not invited to a party—​this could make him feel as if he were being bullied.
Nobody's laughing.
Hurtful speech has become so common in your marriage that it is now your “normal” style of communication.
That store sells men's wear.
It's strange, isn't it?
You are my mother.
I helped her hang the picture on the wall.
I was planning on going to the beach today, but then it started to rain.
I've got a new bike.
What long hair you've got!
I met him on my way home.
Don't fall into her trap.
I became filled with prejudice​—and even hatred—​for those people,” he says. “And I thought I was completely justified in feeling that way.
In medieval Europe, Jews were falsely accused of poisoning wells and spreading disease. During Nazi rule, Jews were again slandered. But this time they were accused of causing the economic crisis in Germany.
I think it's time for me to turn on the radio.
I grew up in an unhappy home. My father, for example, had a violent temper and often beat me.
Stress can cause anxiety. So try this: First, recognize that some stress is inevitable. Fretting over things you cannot prevent increases your stress.
He pretends to be deaf.
She was weary with age.
If so, undoubtedly you can see that your attitude can make a difference in your life. On the other hand, what if you are more like Alex or Andrea?
In time, I learned more about them. I even started to learn their language and to listen to their folk songs.
For Jonathan, the incident was a painful reminder that all his efforts to move and to blend in could not provide him with an escape from prejudice.
Are you going to get in trouble because of me?
I came to give you back the books I borrowed.
Joojo picked up the bottle, but had trouble opening it.
All at once the sky became dark and it started to rain.
We're in this together, right?
However, while in the army, I had no choice but to live and work with fellow soldiers from that minority group.
Some societies teach that “real men” are domineering or that women need to be fiercely aggressive so as not to appear weak.
Everyone was drinking.
I'll never be able to do that as well as you.
I told Joojo I was there.
There is much you can do to slow down or prevent the onset of illness
The hill used to be covered in snow.
I live in Yokohama.
Note that it is the love of money—not money itself—that brings harm. Indeed, an inordinate focus on money can drive a wedge between friends and between family members.
Playing basketball is also a great way to make friends.
But sometimes I struggled to control my temper at home.
Why don't you give her some flowers?
Since many incidents go unreported, no doubt the situation is worse than statistics reveal.
He says: “I believe that considering others as superior to you is important in counteracting prejudice. I don’t know everything. I can learn something from every person.
Joojo was on the verge of tears.
He has many acquaintances but few friends.
He goes to school on foot.
They worry about being able to support themselves and their children financially.
I made a judgment call.
Joojo came in carrying something.
There used to be a large park here.
Isabel’s parents have come for a visit. They share an enjoyable evening with their daughter and her husband, marked by pleasant conversation.
There were several framed pictures on the wall.
Do you understand the difference?
The Virgin Efua is Jesus' mother.
It cost me 10 dollars.
I sat down next to Joojo.
How many eggs were you able to get yesterday?
Joojo is behind you.
There was a light rain yesterday.
Efua, are you decent?
What would I do without you?
It only took us fifteen minutes to complete the job.
I need sleeping pills.
The cinders were still smoking.
He lost his temper and hit the boy.
We got lost in the woods.
I have a bad headache.
Joojo applied for a credit card, but he was turned down.
Am I always thinking about money?
Her face suddenly turned red.
If I could, I would let every caged bird fly free.
Joojo will take care of everything.
She thought for a few minutes.
Only Joojo stayed.
Your dreams have come true.
I feel like playing, too.
We had a snowball fight.
Learning to be humble will help your child both now and later in life​—for example, when seeking employment.
Would you please leave us alone for a minute?
A more probing question would be, Which race or ethnic group did you imagine these men to be? Your answer to this question could be quite revealing.
Have you had a similar experience? If so, this article can help you come to terms with your loss.
Do you have an English menu?
Even the fastest horse only has four legs.
There are certain times when hand washing is particularly important to protect your own health and that of others.
He tried to make up for lost time.
This moved me to question the validity of my supposed higher status​—one that I had neither chosen nor earned.”
You should have attended today's meeting.
I want you to read this book.
People whose primary motivations are financial are much more likely to be anxious and depressed than people who value strong relationships with others,” writes Dr. Jean M. Twenge in her book Generation Me.
I assure you that won't be necessary.
Contact a friend who is going through a hard time
Thank you for your thorough explanation.
I like to listen to the radio.
Joojo looked like he was going to start crying.
Even though my mom prepared me, my first period totally caught me off guard,” says a young woman named Kathleen.
Population: Approximately 20 million, Capital: Yaoundé
The old man looked surprised at the news.
Joojo was helping me.
Have you seen my passport?
The show must go on.
He told her to study.
Until the 15th century C.E., Indonesia was largely influenced by Hinduism and then Buddhism.
I'm convinced that this job is perfect for you.
Your behavior is creating a lot of problems.
He administered his friend's affairs.
Things have changed.
Keep your fingers crossed.
She almost froze to death in the snow.
No one can blame you for being a little scared.
Joojo said Efua threatened him with a knife.
I'll drive to Boston.
You should have told me a long time ago.
Nobody has seen him ever since.
She knows who we are.
Take my hand.
Joojo has to act now.
This is a road map.
You should come with me sometime.
Put the book on the top shelf.
Film and television comedies turn rude speech into a laughing matter, leaving the viewer with the impression that it is harmless—or even funny.
There's nothing to do, so I may as well go to bed.
I miss it.
His ideas are too radical to be acceptable to most people.
There are many ways to grieve. This means that the way you express your sorrow might differ from the way others do so.
He can speak five languages.
Expect setbacks, and don’t give up when you face them.
Do not be hasty to rush in and fix all their problems for them.
I think it's the right thing to do.
His house is near the subway.
When I was a child, I used to like sliding down the staircase banister.
You look busy.
They told him he was their prisoner.
My parents don't want me drinking beer every night.
At times like that, it is beautiful to be forgiving. A good marriage is impossible without forgiveness.
The delegates elected him on the first vote.
Could you turn down the volume?
We're going to have a test today.
He got a loan from the bank.
According to various recommendations, children and adolescents should get at least 60 minutes of moderate-to-vigorous activity every day.
Joojo assured Aku that he'd help her paint the ceiling of her kitchen.
A salesman, for instance, might not envy a famous movie star. But he may envy a more successful fellow salesman.
I don't like pepperoni pizza very much.
If I were you, I would go home and take a good rest.
You might consider basketball, tennis, soccer, brisk walking, cycling, gardening, chopping wood, swimming, canoeing, jogging, or other aerobic exercise.
She crossed the street.
He needs help.
Many people attended that meeting.
He's in his fifties.
What happened to your leg?
The more we learn, the better we realize our ignorance.
If a relationship has to be a secret, you shouldn't be in it.
I study psychology.
They told me to wait here.
However, a loyal friend will have the courage to point out a serious fault and offer tactful guidance.
Do you know this man in the picture?
This principle can be summarized in two words​—show empathy. Empathy is the ability to put oneself in another’s place and feel what he feels.
True friends look out for your best interests, and you look out for theirs.
In reality, it is a strength that helps people recognize their faults and acknowledge their limitations.
Acknowledge that the information you have about others may be limited.
Your goal becomes to clear out your in-box rather than to help a friend in need.
I wanted to be known, not as a person who has money, but as someone who does kind things for others.
You seem to be lying.
He interpreted for me.
I'm getting better every day.
In Massachusetts, a man is not allowed to marry his wife's grandmother.
Making friends with only those who are your age and have the same tastes as you is like wearing clothing in your favorite color all the time.
Before and after being with someone who is sick.
Joojo is expected to arrive any minute now.
Open your eyes, please.
So forgiveness does not always require that you forget what happened or minimize the wrong.
I haven't read the final page of the novel yet.
He's in prison.
Too much stress can lead to irritability, anxiety, depression, headaches, insomnia
I want to marry you.
Simply measuring success in monetary terms is shallow and will leave you empty in the long-term.
Would you like to get married and have children?
Unsafe drinking water is one of the causes of an estimated 1.7 billion cases of diarrheal disease every year.
The animals were busy collecting nuts.
I'm not one hundred percent convinced of that.
They slept in the same bed.
Anything would set me off—late meals, for instance. Once I pistol-whipped Valerie.
Joojo deposited some money in his savings account just yesterday.
He never travels without taking an alarm clock with him.
I saw him sawing a tree.
My wife's going to kill me.
Joojo wants to call off the marriage.
I would rather be a realist than a dreamer.
Joojo seldom laughed at Aku's jokes.
Joojo is positive that he isn't wrong.
Your arms are longer than mine.
Do I speak positively and appreciatively about others, or do I belittle them?
The surgeon persuaded him to undergo an organ transplant.
I got the machine running.
I don't buy it.
Where is the cafeteria?
Why should I care who Joojo talks to?
If you answer these questions honestly, you may not only overcome any prejudice you have but you may also find things to admire in that person.
In some lands it is also possible to find protein-rich foods from vegetable sources.
The work begins to get more difficult.
I have an appointment with the professor at 1:30.
Help Joojo.
Joojo couldn't hold back his tears.
Joojo wasn't in the office.
I changed the kind of car that I was willing to drive.
I am explaining the rules.
Shall I buy you a ticket for the concert?
What have you decided?
My friend will be our guide.
Do you want this shirt?
When you face disappointment, which of those two men do you react like?
Can you play the drums?
There is a great demand for gasoline.
I can't finish this today.
This soup is too salty to eat.
You can wait here.
Use these examples to instill appreciation, awe, and gratitude for the wonders of the natural world.
Joojo runs 10 kilometers a day.
Too much stress can lead to body aches and pains, tension headaches, muscle spasms
I don't go to school by bus.
Saying no to your child now will help him to say no to himself later in life​—for example, if he is tempted to take drugs or to engage in other harmful practices
Please smile.
We've done enough waiting.
The book is small.
In August 2012, some 1,050,000 people entered the lottery that assigned 19,926 registration certificates, meaning that only 1 out of 53 applicants was successful.
There was nowhere to hide.
When we face complex problems, we may feel that happiness and inner peace are elusive.
I'm sure of this.
I'm not saying I'm better than Joojo.
I've done some things.
Efua doesn't love her husband.
I think it's fascinating.
I decided to stay one more day.
They obeyed.
Real friendship is more valuable than money.
Joojo doesn't know what he'd do without Araba.
The problem is, such thinking puts the emphasis on something that cannot be controlled—the actions of another person.
Do you want to leave today?
Eating between meals is a bad habit.
Some people might be skeptical of that idea
If I forgive, I have to forget what happened.
Could you please tell Joojo I need to talk to him?
My wife gets on well with my mother.
He should have been a lawyer.
They stopped abruptly and run into the bush but fortunately Braima was arrested.
Joojo took off his glasses and rubbed his eyes.
Life being very short, you ought not to waste your time.
Joojo ended up marrying Efua after all.
However, there are circumstances that might move some to separate, including the extreme conduct of a physically abusive mate.
I won't see her again.
It may indicate that to some extent, you have already been affected by the seeds of prejudice.
She refused my invitation.
My wife left me, and I had to raise two children on my own. It was hard being a single parent.
I took him to the hospital.
Who painted this picture?
We could sense that we were not truly successful.
Maybe you won't believe me.
Jeannie was seven when her mom passed away after a year-long battle with ovarian cancer.
My husband knows what pleases me, and he is always full of surprises.
I have something special for you.
Toledo captures the historical and cultural flavor of Spain. It was designated a World Heritage site in 1986 and is a popular stop for tourists
What more could I want?
She reluctantly went by herself.
Joojo isn't the sharpest tool in the shed.
We discussed our plans for a trip to Italy over coffee.
Have your level of blood sugar tested if you are in a high-risk group.
She wants to buy her boyfriend a present.
To illustrate, a patient named Tom was sick and later died.
They kept their relationship a secret.
The tickets sold out within a week.
My zipper got stuck.
There was much work to do.
His advice didn't help at all.
We didn't want to upset Joojo.
Last night there was a full moon.
You may even need someone to look after you, and you may have to pay for expensive medicines and treatment.
Could the photos and comments that I post on social media give the impression that I am focusing on myself?
A car that is neglected will eventually stop functioning; the same can be true of your body if you neglect exercise
As a parent, you rightly take reasonable steps to protect your child from danger.
I'll keep this for future use.
The end justifies the means.
Each of us is unique. What makes you happy may not make someone else happy. Additionally, we change as we grow older.
Bread is made from wheat.
Yet, at the height of their material success, they gave it up.
Where is the boy?
Avoid harmful “solutions” to stress, such as smoking or drug and alcohol abuse.
Do you think it's dangerous to eat genetically modified food?
What am I supposed to do now?
Theory and practice do not necessarily go together.
Joojo is sick in bed.
I never meant for this to happen.
I lived in constant fear. At times I had to flee the house until Troy calmed down.
To minimize this risk, drink water instead of sweet beverages.
I lost my umbrella.
How many times a day do you feed your dog?
Joojo calls me almost every day.
I eat bread.
Joojo is Efua's teacher.
It never occurred to me that he might be ill.
Joojo taught me that.
I'll do it according to your instructions.
Also, I don’t think it’s wrong occasionally to have a candy bar or eat fast food.
Put all the boxes in their place.
He left the country after his grandfather's death.
I'm still awake.
My parents still haven't met my girlfriend.
INDONESIA is made up of some 17,000 islands. Its people are known for being exceptionally friendly, patient, polite, and hospitable.
It seems that Tom’s earlier caregivers had simply given him medication to make him feel better.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
Give them money.
I want to do the right thing.
A river separates the city into east and west.
Several hundred years after that, the Fulani—an Islamic people—conquered northern Cameroon.
I was prepared to do anything they asked me to do.
I found out that Joojo now has three citations for drunken driving.
You think it’s an older-person issue.
He will arrive within an hour.
Exempting your child from family chores might give him the message, ‘You are too important to do this!’
We used to be friends.
Please take Joojo with you.
Hurry up, guys.
I like potato salad.
Joojo saw Efua and John arguing.
The hunter followed the bear's tracks.
The court presided over by Mrs. Rosemond Baah Torsu convicted Musah on his own plea and sentenced him accordingly.
In time, however, reason prevailed. The two men put their differences behind them and made peace. What helped them to succeed?
These increase your heart rate, regulate your blood pressure, expand or constrict the capacity of your lungs, and tense your muscles.
I have to get a new computer.
They may even feel abandoned.
Can you really swim?
This bicycle has been left here since the beginning of this month.
The kite got caught in the tree.
I've never heard her speak ill of others.
Joojo and Efua always talk about the same old things. It gets kind of boring.
Let's stop hurting each other.
Identity theft is one of the fastest-growing crimes in the world. . . . The internet provides another outlet for one of the worst traits of humankind​—the capacity to be vicious and cruel.
The only question now is how we're going to get home.
I found my father's diary that he kept for 30 years.
It flatters us to know that we are valued, and it makes us feel attractive.
I knew it was real.
One of the easiest ways to catch a cold or influenza is to rub your nose or your eyes when your hands have been contaminated by germs.
I go to the barber once a month.
Look to the future, and do not bring up past problems.
Federico said that he would help us finish the painting.
She is Japanese.
Let me explain why.
How can we avoid this flawed way of thinking?
How? “Instead of focusing on my limitations,” he says, “I learned to occupy my mind with encouraging subjects.
Joojo promised Efua he'd help John.
Joojo is hiding under the table.
I prefer this version.
Someone is lying.
The sky's getting darker.
Money does not always bring happiness.
They say that she'll get married soon.
Unrealistic expectations can make a person more prone to find fault and less inclined to forgive.
Joojo doesn't need to go.
Joojo enjoyed working for Aku.
Joojo is very conceited, isn't he?
He's a famous popular singer in Japan.
She stood there even after the train was out of sight.
I think it's cruel to keep a cat indoors.
I can't move.
She is really a good girl.
Joojo felt dizzy.
But that’s exactly what happened. When my parents died, they left us a small inheritance and stipulated that the money was to be divided equally between us.
I really got depressed.
But technology can affect people subtly in ways they do not realize​—even in ways they do not want.
I hid under the table.
He has a lot of hobbies.
Joojo doesn't like people who manipulate others.
I found him riding a bicycle in the park.
Joojo took little sips of the piping hot coffee.
Recreational drug use inspires many urban legends.
I see why you don't want to go there.
My boss highlighted aspects of my work that he liked, but I made a few fundamental mistakes. I’ve learned some valuable lessons that will help me do better next time.
Joojo plans to call you right after lunch.
They finished their meal.
It's completely normal.
Yes! As a young man, I joined a political group in opposition to the government.
But in both cases what you really might need is more sleep.
I can't wait until tomorrow.
He is a scientist who is respected by everybody.
Joojo poured milk into the glass and then handed it to Aku.
I spent most of my younger years in an area where the population was predominantly of one race and background.
He used every chance to practice English.
Simply put, attention from the opposite sex feels good.
I want life to go back to the way it was before.
I know where Joojo is going.
Some experts say that shying away from discussing difficult issues can be a significant predictor of unhappiness in marriage—and even a predictor of divorce.
Others blame God, thinking that he should have prevented the death.
Do you study chemistry?
It does not teach that success is attainable only by a fortunate few.
What is the purpose of your visit?
Were you aware of this?
The maid hasn't made up the room yet.
Both children were punished.
Rather than allow your circumstances to control you, take control of your schedule so that you get the sleep you need.
It feels great to be able to do ten chin-ups—a year ago there was no way I could do even one!
Should I be jealous?
This mission is highly secret and extremely dangerous.
He is washing the car.
What do you look for in a friend? How can you be a good friend? What does it take to forge a lasting friendship?
My knowledge of Japanese is rather poor.
There are a lot of things you don't know about my personality.
You may also recognize that there is more to being a friend than simply clicking links on a computer screen or a smartphone.
DO NOT WASTE TIME AND RESOURCES ON BAD HABITS
I think you have made a mistake.
Studies also link burnout to numerous emotional and physical health problems.
We're cold.
Her bicycle is blue.
At first, she may be reluctant to talk.
Everyone has stress to some degree, yet I am overwhelmed with stress.
Joojo won't ask for help.
I am tired of my monotonous life.
Some experts say that holding on to resentment can put you at greater risk for a wide range of physical and emotional problems, including depression and high blood pressure​—not to mention the damage it does to your marriage.
What do you call this fish in English?
I have a lot of ideas.
He is studying agriculture.
Even if you need to lose weight, remember that your goal is to be healthy.
I need a new computer.
Prices are going up.
Your health is affected by realities over which you have no control—such as economic conditions, the availability of resources, and so on. In all likelihood, however, it should be within your means to adopt at least some of the suggestions given in the foregoing article.
THE NORTH ISLAND IS CHARACTERIZED BY VOLCANIC AND THERMAL ACTIVITY. THE SOUTH ISLAND HAS THOUSANDS OF GLACIERS
After I run, I have more energy and feel better about myself.
Empathy requires that we slow down and patiently consider another person​—something that may seem difficult to achieve with an overload of social media posts and rapid-fire texting.
He boasted of his courage.
Joojo is secretly in love with Efua.
My husband and I used to go mountain climbing together.
However, the tragic incident involving the woman in Britain underscores a startling reality—true friendship still eludes many.
We're about to explore some uncharted territory.
I have very little time at my disposal.
She broke my heart.
I finally asked my friends to stop saying those things, and I explained to them why their words hurt me.
Is it far?
For example, it would hardly be fitting to talk to such a friend about your marital problems or to go out for drinks with a coworker of the opposite sex.
It kept snowing all day.
Joojo felt a pain in his side.
Where's my husband?
People tend to raise their voices when they get excited.
I've got things to say.
Joojo is running a little late.
One study found that children with greater self-control were less likely, as adults, to have health issues, financial stress, and problems with the law.
Nearly 1 person is forcibly displaced every two seconds,” said the report.
There's a pay phone over there.
His English is quite good.
Like Jill and Barry, do you sometimes feel overwhelmed with stress? If so, may the following articles comfort and help you.
No one saw us.
If we are honest with ourselves, we have to admit that deep down we all harbor varying degrees of prejudice in one form or another.
Alex’s business has flourished, and as a result, he and his family live comfortably.
Some online activities​—gaming, for example—​tend to be highly addictive. That is no accident.
Joojo has been trapped.
Look at those clouds.
Rinse in clean running water.
I bought a ticket.
James Madison hated the idea.
All Joojo wanted was for Efua to play a couple of tunes on her ukulele.
What happened last night?
I borrow money.
He likes that book.
How do you know how hard it is?
If you have any doubts, let me know without any hesitation.
I'm eating.
I like a pen with a fine point.
The storm raged for a few days.
You may need to consider your intake of salt, fats, and sugar, and you should watch your portion sizes.
WHAT could be worse than failure? False success.
Still, domestic violence is disturbingly common. In the United States, for example, one survey found that during one day an average of over 16 calls per minute were directed to domestic-violence hotlines across the country.
He is not a friend, but an acquaintance.
The thief fled without leaving any traces.
Please tell me about your problem.
People will install an alarm system in their vehicle or home to prevent theft.
We were no more created to rule over our fellow humans than we were created to live under water
Thank God nobody got hurt in this accident.
Joojo might've caught something.
This smells like cheese.
What else can you do?
We talked for a long time.
She advised him to do more exercise.
Joojo put the flowers in a vase.
She died at the age of 54.
Joojo seems reasonable.
Have you told anyone about the surprise party?
The bird had a broken wing.
How many times does the bus run each day?
Resentment can destroy a marriage. Why? Because it undermines the very qualities upon which a marriage should be built, including love, trust, and loyalty.
Do you know how to use this?
Joojo doesn't like this.
I knew Joojo wouldn't kiss you.
As you and your mate start your life together, various problems will arise. They may result from differences in how each of you thinks, feels, and approaches life.
Jonathan’s experience highlights a grim reality. Prejudice is found in every corner of the earth. It appears that wherever there are people, there is prejudice.
The building has 20 floors.
Were you present at the crime scene?
The poem's rhyme scheme is highly complex.
I bought a camera not long ago.
I have been to India.
I don't now what I'm going to do now.
That's understandable.
Do you know how to get to Joojo's house?
He was shocked to hear that his daughter had shoplifted.
She didn't want him to play poker.
It is almost three.
My parents try to micromanage every aspect of my life,” complains 16-year-old Brad.
He'll never forgive me.
If you face an unrealistic workload or some other persistent problem in your workplace, discuss your situation with your employer.
Yes, if we strive to understand another person’s struggles, we are more likely to empathize rather than to criticize.
Later, we opened four barber shops.
I speak a little German.
Come quickly!
Therefore, encourage your child to identify those in need.
Too much salt, or sodium, in the diet can raise your blood pressure to an unhealthy level.
I went to sleep during the lesson.
You do not have to argue every issue to the bitter end. Instead, make your point . . . and then stop.
Joojo beeped the horn.
This is where we live.
Despite the benefits we have mentioned, many teenagers aren’t getting the sleep they need.
Call me once in a while.
Experts say that most teenagers need between eight and ten hours of sleep a night. Why is it important that you get enough sleep?
We're stranded.
Consider just some of the changes and uncertainties that contribute to stress: divorce, the death of a loved one, severe illness, serious accidents, crime, a hectic pace of life, disasters​—natural or man-made, pressures at school or work, worries about employment and financial security
They want their children to grow up with both parents.
If you happen to see him, please give him my best regards.
Their eyes met.
Joojo casually shrugged.
Come whenever you like.
These infections were caused by contaminated milk.
I know that you are vegetarians.
The entire neighborhood shunned me, and I was forced to move away with my children.”
Joojo didn't answer at once.
Hiking benefits me so much! In fact, I’d say it helps me as much mentally as it does physically.
This beer is bitter.
She has had quite a lot to drink.
A hexagon has six sides.
Joojo is not a liar.
The war continued.
The only thing that matters is that you weren't injured.
Japan consumes a lot of paper.
It can be difficult for your parents to view you and your mate as an independent family.
My father bought this hat for me.
I need someone to help me with housework.
My mother can't read without glasses.
I've lived here my whole life.
When replying, be reasonable. If you rigidly adhere to rules, your teen will be tempted to look for loopholes.
I learned it from you.
The result is damage to vital organs and impairment of blood circulation, sometimes leading to toe or foot amputation, blindness, and kidney disease.
Joojo decided to submit his resignation.
I need to ask you a favor.
What rules will we put in place?
He needs a more productive outlet for his anger.
I thought you said you didn't see anything.
I understand his reasoning completely, and I agree with his decision. I will never allow anything as trivial as money to cause a division in my family.
She bought a shirt for him to wear to the party.
Numerous stars were visible in the sky.
He took out his handkerchief.
Our teacher looks very young.
Granted, it is easy to blame your spouse. But remember, resentment is a choice.
Anyone can fall into this trap.
Show me another camera.
I really ought to go.
It looks fascinating.
Soccer is an exciting sport.
Joojo doesn't like to travel.
I have two brothers and a sister.
She tied him up.
But the rewards are worth the effort. Ask yourself, ‘Am I willing to give of myself, my time, and my resources for my friend?’ Remember, to have a good friend, you first need to be a good friend.
Having a balanced diet shouldn’t take the joy out of eating, nor does it require that you obsess about every morsel of food you take into your body.
It said the victims were rushed to the Green Sheild Hospital at Sefwi Bekwai for medical treatment but they were pronounced dead on arrival.
These might include not eating enough, binge eating, or denying yourself an occasional treat.
How often do you go to one of the extremes described above?
It was a forced smile.
He left everything to her in his will.
Joojo is receiving treatment.
Look at us.
You can learn to talk with your teenager. First, though, consider two factors that may contribute to the challenge.
What did Joojo eat?
You can learn. First, though, consider why a husband and wife may find it so difficult to forgive each other.
Joojo doesn't know who Efua's boyfriend is.
I'd like to make more money.
Joojo did it.
She cleaned the house all by herself.
I just want you to listen.
Care for your attitude in the same way you would cultivate a garden. Root out the poisonous weeds of pessimism and negativity.
That thought could well apply to those who devote themselves to the pursuit of money and all it can buy​—the epitome of false success.
He found me a taxi.
Joojo asked me for help.
Joojo did it your way.
This is the only pair of shoes I have.
If you think of your marriage mate as your teammate rather than your opponent, you will “not be quick to take offense.”
He must have drunk too much last night.
I showed my ticket at the door.
See the positive side of a situation. A long wait at a doctor’s office or an airport is easier to bear if you use the time to do some reading or to catch up on work or e-mail.
He wants to work in a hospital.
Listen carefully and do exactly what I tell you.
Joojo wiped away Efua's tears.
For example, if you spent more than you planned on automobile fuel, take money set aside for a less important purpose​—for example, dining out.
Hurtful speech is more often a problem of the heart than of the mouth
The three of them began to laugh.
What color is your hair?
A police car has stopped on the side of the road.
Joojo is unfit for that job.
You can get discouraged when you see others who seem to eat whatever they want yet suffer no ill effects.
Try to see beyond the differences and find similarities between you and people from a group you may view negatively.
Evidently, Joojo didn't want to go.
That, in turn, helps you to create an environment that keeps resentment in check and allows love to grow.​
I never for a moment imagined that my blog would become so popular.
They want to go home.
When a person maintains a balanced view of money—regarding it as a means to an end rather than an end in itself—it is possible to enjoy a greater measure of contentment.
Why is the table so wobbly?
Failure is inevitable in some endeavors.​
When you do this, you will reduce stress all around and even encourage greater success. Also, keep a sense of humor. When you laugh​—even when something goes wrong—​you relieve tension and brighten your mood.
I still have to go to the bank.
He was expelled from school.
I don't know her and I don't think I want to.
Joojo scowled at Aku.
Joojo never showed up.
What kind of girl are you?
Are the drinks free? "Only for ladies."
The Ghana Police Service has arrested a taxi driver for his alleged involvement in several ritual murders.
After all, it may seem as if everyone else were having a good time, while your own life is in a rut.
Joojo stood in the middle of the room.
Some people think that there are too many lawyers in this country.
We won't start the meeting until Joojo comes.
Nobody else can know.
She runs faster than I do.
That's the best way of settling it.
You eat more food than I do.
I have too many things on my mind these days.
Joojo chatted with Araba.
In some cases, depending on local laws and the ages of those involved, people who sext can be charged with spreading child pornography.
After all, when you fail at some endeavor, you can take steps to correct the situation.
Joojo opened the window a crack.
I like white wine better than red wine.
He likes to play cards.
I can't breath through my nose.
Chronic stress can also lead to substance abuse and other unhealthy means of coping. It may even spiral into depression, burnout, or thoughts of suicide.
Check my child’s phone periodically
He has some money in the bank.
Joojo is unmarried.
The teacher collected the papers.
Burnout can also be self-inflicted. In the pursuit of career goals and greater income, some try to fit ever more work into their life.
What happened? "The car broke down."
A distorted view of money can cause people to become judgmental. For example, a wealthy person might assume that those who are poor are too lazy to better themselves.
Do you want to hear what that person said about you?
I would have preferred that he hit me rather than say such hurtful things.
Joojo ran into the room.
Furthermore, looking at the exciting photos others have posted can lead to negative comparisons.
We sometimes swim in the lake.
The committee approved the budget.
Joojo asked Efua if she'd go.
My health suffered. Our relationship suffered. We didn’t get along well.
I had four factors against me: I was from a high-risk ethnic group, I had a family history of diabetes, I was overweight, and I didn’t exercise.
Often, social media is linked with self-promotion​—broadcasting a person’s talents and accomplishments—​the very opposite of humility.
No amount of positive thinking will change my situation
Joojo was the first person in our neighborhood to buy an iPad.
Are they Canadian?
Why don't you look for a job?
Do you think fish can hear?
I accepted the fact that this wasn’t going to be a quick process and that it truly is a lifestyle change.
Joojo usually shows up on time.
It is a lot of fun to drive a car.
Joojo told me you'd be here.
I'll stay close.
He visited Japan when he was president.
He made mistake after mistake.
You have to go back.
I think I'd like to be a better student.
If your identity and self-worth come primarily from your work, then you will find it difficult to minimize the role that work plays in your life.
Joojo was an accountant.
Let's sit here on the grass.
The temple is at the top of the hill.
Even when you have reached a mutually agreeable work arrangement with your employer, you can expect to be pressured again to take on more work.
I wish I had not bought such a useless thing.
I found a coin on the sidewalk.
Joojo didn't look like a freak.
It is easier to be forgiving when you accept your spouse for who he or she is, flaws and all.
Whatever the case, prejudices can be formed against another person because of his race, weight, gender, language, religion, or virtually any perceived difference.
Joojo called Efua to ask her to help at the bake sale.
He pulled the rope.
I do not know whether to take it as a compliment or an insult.
All of the dogs were alive.
Joojo is very busy with his work.
My brother is a freshman.
The boxer struck his opponent hard.
I would like to order a sandwich.
I'm not sure about that. It depends.
Our daughter told us about a classmate who, she said, is mean to others and is not liked.
The disease upsets the normal process of transferring sugar from the bloodstream into cells that need it for energy.
The more you study, the more you know.
The five food groups include dairy products, proteins, fruits, vegetables, and grains.
It's almost time.
He banged the door in anger.
That made me less hungry for the less healthful items on my plate. I also became more physically active, something I had neglected for years.
I feel like eating something sweet.
Mankind has been unable to find a cure for the hurtful traits that lurk within us.
We're not the champions.
In contrast, children with less self-control may be more likely to be aggressive, suffer depression, smoke or abuse alcohol or drugs and make poor choices in what they eat
When online, some people become more aggressive, vulgar, and insensitive to others’ feelings​—traits that can lead to bullying.
I can't get the door to shut properly.
Eat more fruit instead of sugary desserts.
It was snowing, but it wasn't very cold outside.
Do my children see that I value serving others?
We cannot control what someone else says or does, but we can control how we react to it. Resentment is not the only option.
I don't want to do it anymore.
Likely, though, you are pitting your friend’s strengths against your spouse’s weaknesses—an unfair comparison, to say the least!
Dogs wag their tails and cats swish theirs.
Josué suffers from spina bifida, a severe defect in his spinal column. He is often racked with pain.
He doesn't have the time to play cards.
I live in Japan.
It is not just a matter of what might occur. Consider what has already happened.
A spirit of forgiveness allows you and your mate to give each other the benefit of the doubt rather than to “keep score” of wrongs.
The wound left a scar on her arm.
The more we focus on how similar they are to us, the less likely we will be to judge them negatively.
They are too close.
On the night of our engagement, Troy slapped me so hard that I had a bruise for a week.
Revenge is sweet.
People believe what they see.
As I put myself in a deaf person’s shoes, my prejudices evaporated into thin air.
Really, forgiving does not imply any of the foregoing. Still, extending forgiveness can be difficult​—especially in the close relationship between husband and wife.
You are correct in thinking so.
Joojo deserved the punishment.
It is an old manuscript.
There are a lot of things I have to do before tomorrow.
I can't find my bag.
Everyone loves that place.
Technology now keeps some in constant contact with their job, blurring the lines between work and private life.
I'll be on my own.
Many peoples—including the Phoenicians, the Greeks, and the Carthaginians—migrated to this southwest corner of Europe.
Tell Joojo I'll be there in thirty minutes.
The baby's awake.
I think we're getting behind in this work.
Do you know what the problem with this is?
I like winter better than summer.
This picture must have been taken in 1964.
The pain was terrible.
To be effective, any cure must surely address the root causes of our troubles, not just the symptoms.
According to the book Teach Your Children Well, youths whose schedules are overly crammed “often show signs of stress, particularly physical signs like headaches and stomachaches.
That film's really interesting.
Where can I wash my hands?
Be assured that things can improve. First, though, consider a few facts about resentment.
Europeans seeking spices arrived in the 16th century, and with them came the religions of Christendom.
It was very cold that winter.
Wash your hands, cutting board, utensils, dishes, and countertops with hot, soapy water before preparing each item.
Here was a land of mountains and glaciers, thermal springs and snow. Another race of settlers arrived about five centuries later, this time from distant Europe.
Is that what happened here?
Is there a supermarket near here?
Joojo thinks of Efua as his best friend.
Indonesians love art, dance, and music.
Your glands produce the hormones adrenaline and cortisol, which help the body react to stress.
We lost our electricity because of the storm.
I'd like that.
My house is close to a bus stop.
She was asked to help him paint the house.
She's trying to whistle, but she doesn't know how.
Likely, your friendship is already too close and you need to address the situation.
She advised him not to drink too much.
You can hear the water dripping from the pipe.
There's a possibility that she'll succeed.
We won't be able to help Joojo.
You broke the rule.
I'll speak to him at the first opportunity.
Is there anything else?
There's nothing better than taking a nice walk.
I don't want to write with this pen.
Ask yourself, ‘What needs are being fulfilled by this friendship that would better be fulfilled in my marriage?’
I want a tie to go with this suit.
That's how he likes it.
Can't you live your own life?
I think I've got a touch of fever.
What is the most urgent problem that I want to discuss with my mate?
When you marry, your parents may feel that they are still responsible for you, and they may want to be more involved in your marriage than they should be.
Please fill this bucket with water.
If you work secularly, your job should be part of your life​—but not your whole life.
Joojo didn't say how much money he had spent.
What makes you think that I want to be left alone?
They say that you never get over your first love.
It isn't impossible.
What difference does it make?
Finally, I decided to stop counting calories, to be careful not to overeat, and to stop eating when I was full.
According to the book The Narcissism Epidemic, people who pursue wealth are more apt to “suffer from poor mental health; they also report more physical health problems such as sore throats, backaches, and headaches and were more likely to drink too much alcohol and use illegal drugs. Striving for financial success, apparently, makes people miserable.”
Experiencing the joy of giving can do much to help us cope with negative circumstances in life.
I may have hurt his feelings.
Wait until tomorrow morning.
List your tasks in order of importance. This will help you focus on the more important jobs, and it will reveal which ones you can put off, delegate, or even eliminate.
homas felt cheated and angrily insisted that I return his money. I was shocked! When I tried to reason with him, he became belligerent and hostile.
He is driven.
They were sunbathing on the beach.
Joojo certainly convinced me that I should lose some weight.
In fact, I once got angry and hit my wife, which I deeply regret. She kindly forgave me, though, and this made me even more determined to master my emotions.
Disease prevention.
Have more in-person conversations (rather than solely relying on texting or email)
There was a tall tree in front of my house.
I like to play poker.
Now that you're my girlfriend, I'm happy.
I would have been happier if I had stayed there.
Joojo doesn't think anything bad is ever going to happen.
Good health is impossible without good nutrition, and for good nutrition you need a healthy, balanced diet.
Some children get discouraged when they meet with failure, adversity, or criticism.
Stay close.
It wasn't me.
Joojo is a good painter.
‘We’re just friends,’ you tell yourself—although your spouse might think otherwise if he or she were privy to your lingering conversations.
Do you know where she lives?
If you’re failing math, you might think that you just need to study harder.
Which is better for Alex’s children​—that they have everything money can buy or that they have a father who shows that he values spending time with them?
Stand up, please.
Keep notes.
A lot of boys ran after the rabbit.
‘Could this person find faults in me?
I just miss him.
Joojo brushed his teeth.
I always try to be punctual.
Would you mind if I smoke?
You only started this job an hour ago.
They are ashamed to admit that they are being abused.
Keep the big picture in mind. Ask yourself, ‘Will this problem be a big issue tomorrow or next week?’ Distinguish between minor or short-term issues and more serious ones.
My father recently made a decision about his will that substantially reduced the amount I would inherit, while increasing the amount that would go to my siblings. But we talked about it.
Most of your message will be “heard” by your teenager later, when he’s alone and can ponder over what you’ve said. Give him a chance to do so.
That photographer is really talented.
Ask at the police station over there.
The pipes are tuned to produce a particular note or chord when rattled. To play a tune, a number of players must cooperate, each shaking his anklong at the right time.
Joojo must be angry with Efua for what she did.
I went to donate blood today.
They drink a lot.
I'm drinking water.
Joojo, I want you to stay with the kids.
If that were true, what would you do?
The mother told her daughter to put those toys away.
There is some truth in that.
Why did he die? “When his first symptoms appeared, no one thought to search for their underlying cause,” wrote the doctor whose hospital received Tom shortly before he died.
America was discovered by Columbus in 1492.
He carried a bundle of clothes.
I try to have balanced meals from all food groups.
I'm developing an Android application.
I believe that everything will be okay.
Our life has stopped being about making money. We adjusted our focus to more important things, and our relationship improved.
Who's that woman standing over there?
Consider an example: To a child the concept of fairness seems simple: ‘Mom broke a cookie in two and gave half to me and half to my brother.
People don't like working with Joojo because he's hard to get along with.
As we ate our meal, we talked about what we had done that day.
I wanted to introduce you to Joojo.
Rather, it is good to cherish their virtues and to make allowances for their mistakes.
Go inside.
Some people believe in God and others don't.
More specifically, fat in the pancreas and the liver appear to disrupt the body’s regulation of blood sugar. What can you do to reduce your risk?
The party was really boring.
That way, I have a lot more control over what I eat.
He is a promising student.
Nobody saw Joojo steal the book.
I've never left Boston.
Are we able to make the changes needed for a safer and more secure world? Some feel that education should be part of the answer. If so, what kind of education?
Efua will stop at nothing to achieve her goal.
He was sharpening a knife.
Take responsibility for your health.
I don't know how to cook.
You really do look beautiful.
He spun both drumsticks very fast in his hands.
Work hard to become proficient, and do not give up when faced with obstacles.
Your daughter says she is stressed-out. ‘At 13?’ you ask yourself in disbelief. ‘She’s too young to know what stress is!’
Can eating just vegetables help you lose weight?
A self-examination might alert you to the need to acquire a balanced view of money. For example, ask yourself the following questions.
Women age faster than men.
She bought some vegetables yesterday.
May I have the menu and the wine list?
My boyfriend still hasn't met my parents.
What Joojo wants to do isn't a good idea.
What's that boy's name?
A true friend should be able to express his opinions freely but not get upset if you don’t agree.
Of course, money has its limitations. Norwegian poet Arne Garborg said that with money “you can buy food, but not appetite; medicine, but not health; soft beds, but not sleep; knowledge, but not wisdom; glitter, but not beauty; splendor, but not warmth; fun, but not joy; acquaintances, but not friends; servants, but not faithfulness.
She made fun of her husband.
Everyone thinks the same way.
She was advised by him to be punctual.
She wants to go out with him.
The woman is naked.
Don’t compare yourself to them. Find out what works for you and focus on that.
If you are experiencing workplace burnout, how can you recover?
I hate getting up early.
All too soon, these three young people were confronted with the death of a loved one.
She finished her lunch quickly and went shopping.
Maybe you'd better sit down.
She gave me a pretty doll.
Joojo had a heart tattooed on his arm.
I haven't renovated the house yet.
When I’m out and let myself go hungry, I tend to make poor food choices.
In one survey conducted in the United States, “having a lot of money” came in 20th in a list of 22 “contributors to having a successful life.
It took a long time to put out the fire.
I like to run because it’s a huge stress-reliever.
Where are the keys?
I don't want to live by myself.
Joojo helped Efua set the table.
Joojo left Efua for another woman.
I ordered pizza.
Joojo dumped Efua.
Have a specific schedule. Set goals and log your progress to keep yourself motivated.
Family duties should come first, and playing second.
I was not conscious of his presence.
It is new.
Joojo sang better than Efua.
How long do you intend to spend at the library?
Do you want to talk about what just happened?
How, though, can we do so despite occasional upsets? Can we rise above negative attitudes and hurt feelings? Can we settle our differences amicably?
How would my child describe me​—as impulsive and quick-tempered or as self-disciplined and controlled?
Joojo seldom speaks to me anymore.
Joojo paid the cashier.
Listen to me, will you?
It's none of my business!
The statement said the robbers suspected he was making a phone call to raise an alarm and shot him too.
By becoming more aware of your response to stress, you may be able to deal with it more effectively. Also, think of ways to eliminate stressful things from your life.
We would rather go to the zoo than to the park.
He came to Tokyo at the age of three.
The water's cold.
Could you translate this document into French for me?
I'm willing to accept your offer.
They decided to get married.
Children will believe what their parents tell them.
Let's meet at 2:30.
He hasn't been here long.
What kind of book do you want?
While in the past it was seen as exclusive to adults, more recently type 2 diabetes has also been affecting children.
I hate to eat alone.
Where's my book?
Granted, change may seem impossible if you feel trapped in circumstances beyond your control.
Scientists regard the discovery as important.
I'll meet you tomorrow.
He is such a bad person that everybody dislikes him.
She always keeps her room neat and tidy.
What made you laugh? What qualities drew you to each other?
You might be inclined to isolate yourself during this difficult time. But pouring out your feelings to a family member or a friend will help you deal with your emotions and keep this tragedy from overwhelming you.
The border is closed.
I haven't seen these pictures in years.
Today, 40 percent of Cameroon’s inhabitants claim to be Christian, 20 percent are Muslim, and the remaining 40 percent practice traditional African religions.
Have patience for another day or two.
No matter how much you like that color, at some point you may end up getting bored with it.
She looks as if she were drunk.
Japan guaranteed a 2 billion yen aid package to developing countries.
You can't swim well, can you?
Such a custom should be done away with.
Sow seeds of realistic optimism, and fertilize your life with actions that produce positive emotions. You will reap an emotional crop that will make your life much more rewarding. And it will confirm the fact that attitude makes a difference!
I told him what to do, but he wouldn't listen.
He committed suicide.
Joojo can go whenever he likes.
Joojo is extremely clumsy.
He called a cab for me.
Joojo lost consciousness.
I managed to get there in time.
Many cities were destroyed by bombs.
Joojo hates olives.
What obstacles can get in the way of your sleep?
However, I did not think that my viewpoint was prejudiced, since it did not seem to harm anyone.
Regardless of your age, you need regular physical activity to stay in good shape. Many people today do not exercise enough.
Turn the Christmas tree lights off when you leave the house.
THE incidence of diabetes mellitus is increasing so quickly that it has become a global epidemic.
They're not stupid.
Osman Musah told the Police that it was one Yakubu, who engaged him to steal the items for a fee of GH¢200.00.
Holding on to resentment creates a burden that keeps your marriage from moving forward
Please take note of that.
I'd like to be left alone for a while, if you don't mind.
You had better not go there again.
I took several showers a day because I felt dirty all the time.
I saw my grandfather last week.
I'd like to go to London someday.
What helped an Arab and a Jew to overcome their prejudice?
What part of Australia are you from?
I wasn't talking about you.
I went to a diabetes counselor who explained the relationship between diet, exercise, body weight, and diabetes.
Joojo can't stand the smell of cigarette smoke.
We must work hard to make up for lost time.
Everyone. Listen up.
These are our desks.
Don't play with that gun. It's not a toy.
Learning and retention of new information.
I live in a big city.
Everything happened all at once.
Getting the right amount of rest should not be considered optional.
Joojo had a good time in Boston.
He didn't do any work.
One or both spouses may be repeating the type of language they heard from their parents.
It's very complicated.
People who are constantly copying others do it because they can't think for themselves.
THERE is a saying, “Money makes the world go round.” There is some truth to that statement. After all, it takes money to buy food, obtain clothing, and pay for rent or buy a home.
This is an important aspect of abstract thinking, and it helps a young person develop sound judgment.
Joojo can speak French as well.
If you are overweight, not physically active, or have a family history of diabetes, you might already have prediabetes. A blood test can tell you if you do.
He was awfully skinny.
Keep rubbing for at least 20 seconds.
Joojo has fallen in love with Efua.
Do you conclude that the young men pose a threat to you?
Joojo raised his son without any help.
For the next week, notice three positive traits in your spouse. Write them down at the end of the week, and tell your spouse why you appreciate those traits. Focusing on the positive will help you to fight off resentment.
In time, if technology is controlling you, responding to your friends’ messages can seem like another chore on your to-do list.
Point out how chores benefit others and how others will appreciate and respect him for doing them.
They all respect him.
Such advice could hurt you physically and cause you to lose focus on “the more important things” in life.
We went to Australia for our honeymoon.
We have exams right after summer vacation.
There is little wine left.
This dog is white.
Saying no to your child now will help him to say no to himself later in life​—for example, if he is tempted to take drugs, have premarital sex, or engage in other harmful practices.
Frankly speaking, he is an unreliable man.
He is a diplomat at the American Embassy.
I'll tell you an interesting story.
Become a better listener
A diet that is missing vital nutrients is like a chair that is missing a leg
I have a visa.
I was trapped.
Who has eaten all the cookies?
We should be conscious of our shortcomings.
It made her jealous to see him walking with another girl.
He may not be happy.
HOW STRESS CAN AFFECT YOUR BODY
Sleep has been called “food for the brain.” It can help you improve at school, at sports, and in your problem-solving skills.
He may change his mind later.
You are wearing your socks inside out.
I know how I feel.
Do I need to demand an apology, or can I just overlook what happened and move on?’​
There's a map on the wall.
You need to open an account at a bank to receive the payment.
They examine common causes of stress, how stress can affect us, and how we can get at least a measure of stress relief.
I'm okay.
A 2018 United Nations Refugee Agency report said: “We are now witnessing the highest levels of displacement on record.
Probably he will come soon.
Joojo promised to write every day.
I have the complete works of Shakespeare.
The ball hit the fence.
My success was due to your help.
It's all Joojo's fault.
The children are building sand castles on the beach.
Could I have a screwdriver?
When I had a medical checkup for a new job, the doctor told me that I would soon be diabetic if I didn’t take urgent action.
The two men sitting on the bench were Americans.
He is a student.
There is little benefit in becoming a workaholic who sacrifices everything​—health, family, and friendships—​for false success.
Joojo doesn't understand the value of saving.
What does Joojo do in his free time?
If he were given another chance, he'd do his best.
Are you sure this is a good idea?
The faster we rub our hands together, the warmer they get.
Use foresight and be realistic. If you want to work less, your employer may expect you to accept less compensation.
If we know the facts about people, we are less likely to believe common but false assumptions about them. And once we learn that we have not been told the truth about a particular group, we may be more likely to question assumptions that we have made about other groups of people.
Joojo is hard to handle.
They will return when you least expect [them to] in the form of emotional flare-ups or physical ailments.”
If he doesn't come, we won't go.
Joojo can hold his breath for five minutes.
That, in turn, will allow us to overlook minor faults and shortcomings that may irritate us.
There is no knowing what may happen.
I've never been there.
It’s good to finish chores and other responsibilities early so that you’re not worrying about them at bedtime.
Joojo doesn't like speaking French.
You and I have something in common.
Whether we realize it or not, it is difficult for us to detect if we harbor certain prejudices in our heart.
Everyone saw it.
They work for a packaging company.
Joojo pretty much forgot about the meeting.
Do you like living in Boston?
Don't pull the trigger.
My stepfather was diabetic.
Do not impute bad motives or make dogmatic statements, since these will only put your spouse on the defensive.
He's not allowed to leave the country.
Since it was getting even hotter, Joojo peeled off another layer of clothing.
If you eat too many sugars and solid fats, you risk becoming overweight.
I parked on the left side of the street just in front of the school.
Does our child need a device with Internet access? If so, why?
I know a lot about you.
I took advantage of a sale and bought three sweaters.
It makes sense to do so. Consider the following examples.
This just came in for you.
Young children tend to think in concrete, black-and-white terms, but many teenagers can perceive the gray areas of a matter.
Efua is really pretty.
Don't drop that glass.
Could you tell me how to use this washing machine?
Keep listening with an open mind, even if what you are hearing displeases you
The water has been cut off.
There's really nothing else to say.
Yet, access to clean water can become a concern in any part of the world when a main supply that is usually good to drink becomes contaminated as a result of a flood, a storm, a pipe break, or some other issue.
Isn't there something you want to say to Joojo?
Please don't let the children play with knives.
Joojo can't be reasoned with.
I was able to find out his address.
Listen carefully—without interrupting—so that you can get the full scope of the problem.
I'm full.
He has a large farm in Colorado.
I'm leaving for Canada tomorrow.
Even if it rains, the game will be played.
Dry with a clean cloth or a paper towel.
I want a lawyer who can speak English.
I have a toothache.
In fact, one recent survey revealed that although we are socializing more, the number of our truly close friends has decreased.
I hope it rains.
I know I shouldn't have eavesdropped.
The coffee stain was difficult to remove.
Also beware of ‘fitness inspiration’ posters that flaunt slogans such as “When you feel like dying do 10 more.
Can you describe the object?
He did not accept their invitation.
However, some people who primarily use technology to maintain friendships tend to show less empathy for their friends, feel more lonely and empty, focus more on self than on others.
From now on, let's study in the morning.
She said that she was ill.
Whatever you say.
She may or may not agree with us.
He's a DJ.
I want to go to Japan.
Joojo felt he had no chance to win the race.
This is the best restaurant that I know.
I don't know either of his brothers.
You remind me of your mother.
He tumbled down the stairs.
He can't speak English, can he?
Joojo and Efua both went to the same school.
On top of that, I lost my job and I couldn’t afford to get my vehicle inspected for registration.
I'm not nervous.
Choose an activity that is fun.
Sleep-deprived people are more likely to experience mood swings, feel sad or depressed, and have problems getting along with others.
Money is a protection,” observed a wise student of human nature. But he also wrote: “A lover of silver will never be satisfied with silver, nor a lover of wealth with income. This too is futility.
At the same time, some have noted that young people who spend a lot of time online tend to develop a dependency on their devices, become involved in cyberbullying, be exposed to pornography, whether or not by choice.
We saw Joojo.
JONATHAN, a Korean-American, was a victim of racial prejudice as a child. As he grew up, he searched for a place where people would not prejudge him based on his facial features or racial background.
I held on to the rope tightly so I wouldn't fall.
He is what is called a self-made man.
When did you first meet him?
Where is my seat?
Joojo died three days after he arrived in Boston.
For some, job insecurity, lack of control over their work, or feelings of being treated unfairly contribute to burnout. So does dealing with unclear priorities or conflicts with coworkers.
As everyone knows, air is a mixture of gases.
Marilyn Monroe died when she was 36 years old.
Which is your bag?
She couldn't think what to give the children for Christmas.
Exercise can lower your blood sugar and help you maintain a healthy weight. Swap some TV time for exercise time, recommends one expert.
I turned off the lamp and went to sleep.
He lived abroad for many years.
We caught him trying to go out of his room.
Perhaps you have experienced a similar situation. If so, you likely took no pleasure in it! Indeed, most of us want to live in peace and harmony with our friends and neighbors.
Please drop in when you happen to be in the neighborhood.
The audience appeared bored.
Who's your favorite painter?
Did you eat your spinach?
All of them speak French.
As for proteins, eat small and lean portions of meat and poultry and try to eat fish a couple of times a week, if possible.
Poison can kill you.
I wish I had married her.
Can you stand up, please?
Which group do you want to join?
So why can we not make the world peaceful and safe? Are we asking more of ourselves than we can give? Are we trying to do the impossible?
Your children will likely be more successful if they have reasonable goals and work hard to achieve them.
My mother was so tired that she went to bed early.
Joojo tied Efua to the chair.

Do not soothe your grief with junk food or alcohol; they will only make things worse.
I think they saw me.
It's almost midnight. Go to bed.
Some people say thirteen is an unlucky number.
‘If I were part of their group, how would I like others to treat me?’
That's a pretty big snake.
Joojo is extremely ambitious.
They do not behave arrogantly, nor do they expect others to treat them as special.
They shared the money.
They tried to hide what was really going on.
I was able to succeed because of your advice.
Joojo has more money than brains.
He ordered a beer.
We need air to breathe, water to drink, and food to eat.
I know who got injured.
It's a trick.
Instead of sugary fruit juice and carbonated beverages, drink water, tea, or coffee.
How has our child already demonstrated self-control?
These are not words.
She kissed me on the cheek and said goodnight.
After changing diapers or helping a child to use the toilet.
Stress can affect sexual desire and function. Too much stress can lead to impotence, disrupted menstrual cycle
I don't want to hear another word out of you.
It had been snowing for a week.
I left my key in my room.
He helped me clean up the mess.
For a month, keep track of your eating habits.
Trading partners are leaning on Japan to clarify its trade policy.
You can use my car, if you want to.
I'm impatient.
I went to the zoo yesterday.
He had to stay in bed.
Joojo says that he has no trouble understanding Efua's French.
I want to get even with him for the insult.
Ban devices at the dinner table
A mum’s body was discovered buried in a staircase after a building boss noticed a bad smell.
We eat soup with a spoon.
He became a nice young man.
Joojo is alone again.
They're taking the freight out of the train car.
He could not breathe deeply.
In recent years people from Africa, Asia, and Latin America have emigrated to Spain. Many of them enjoy discussing their religious beliefs and customs.
Thank you very much for your letter of January 7th.
He is as strong as ever.
Shall I give you something to read?
Please go over the script.
Friendships take time and effort, so realistically you may only have a few.
He hoped that perhaps there, amid the cold winds of the Arctic Circle, he had finally escaped the even colder winds of prejudice.
Some employers have mistakenly believed that women are unqualified for scientific or technical jobs.
Joojo wants to speak with you.
Do you know a good place to have lunch?
Although the woman had more than a thousand social network “friends” online, not one came to her aid.
If you keep spending money like that, you'll be broke before you know it.
To deal effectively with stress, you need to think about your physical health, the way you interact with others, and your goals and priorities in life​—that is, what you consider to be truly important.
Dad's working.
Like many perpetrators of domestic violence, Frank knows how to put on a “good-guy” pretense when he is in the public eye or with his wife’s parents. But when he is alone with his wife, Frank is terribly cruel.
The text represents the thoughts and the feelings of the author.
The Nile is the longest river in the world.
Joojo was the only one who didn't say anything.
Many men like Frank grew up in violent families, and as adults they think that their behavior is acceptable—even normal.
The time will come when you will understand what I mean.
Have you made a decision?
Marie, now 18, recalls: “When I was between 12 and 14, peer pressure was really strong.
Life without love is just totally pointless.
To what degree can we trust him?
Some people eliminate one or more food groups from their diet, thinking that doing so will help them lose weight.
I live on the fifth floor.
He is nothing but a student.
I'll come as soon as possible.
Andrea and Brittney suffer from bouts of loneliness. Each of them has a different way of coping with the situation.
I loved reading when I was a child.
It has begun.
Try to have a realistic view of yourself and remain aware of your own failings.
Joojo doesn't want to get out of bed.
Even when your work is free of major problems, you may still have your share of stresses, difficult people, and unpleasant situations.
Joojo can't find a babysitter for Friday night.
Even if you disagree, remain gracious, never forgetting to show love and respect to your mate.
We must give it a coat of varnish.
Joojo gave Aku an engagement ring.
He made me his assistant.
This is a hospital.
If I forgive, I am minimizing the wrong.
I am thrilled to be here.
Washington was worried.
Joojo doesn't have any brothers.
See your doctor if your stress becomes overwhelming. Getting professional help is not an admission of failure.
Joojo wonders why Efua came here alone.
The tank is full.
Many Indonesians claim that food eaten this way tastes better.
Decide what you will and will not tolerate when it comes to conduct with the opposite sex.
Joojo is quite intelligent.
If we recognize our own mistakes and our own need for forgiveness, then we’re more willing to forgive others.
Examine this.
She wants to be a heroine.
It was fantastic.
I'm not interested in modern art.
It might snow this evening.
Joojo might hire Efua.
What kind of work will you do?
There's nothing more to be said.
Two persons, who attempted to rob a shop owner at the Kaneshie Social Welfare area, have been sentenced to a total jail term of 26 years imprisonment in hard labour by an Accra Circuit Court.
He is nothing but a minor composer.
It is our destiny.
I'm afraid your request for a pay raise was turned down again.
Daily anxieties are a part of life. But do not increase today’s anxieties by adding tomorrow’s to them. Try to live one day at a time.
Discard perishable items left at room temperature for more than two hours or one hour if air temperature exceeds 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32°C).
I'll pay for myself.
The baby began to crawl.
I put the money into the safe.
I turned the lamp off and fell asleep.
There are some important questions that science cannot answer.
Eventually, though, Charlotte and I decided to scale back. We sold much of what we owned.
To get ideas, ask others what they do for exercise.
Which is your book, this one or that one?
Do I need a shot?
Which is better for Janet’s long-term welfare​—that she get the highest grades or that she nurture a love of learning?
I think you need to eat more.
So be attentive when a friend wishes to share his innermost thoughts and concerns. And do not get offended if he is honest with you.
Let me go.
These grapes taste sour.
The growth spurt of puberty can cause a girl considerable anxiety, especially if she is behind​—or ahead of—​her peers. “I was one of the first girls to have to wear a bra, and I felt so uncomfortable with myself,” says Anna, now 20. “Compared with my peers, I felt that I was weird, as if I were a mutant!”
Joojo wants Efua to apologize.
Is your uncle still abroad?
Remember that recreation does not have to be expensive to be refreshing to you and your family.
Is it true you're moving to Boston?
Let me give you a lift as far as the station.
Joojo cheered.
Joojo should've hired a better lawyer.
Your liver increases your blood-sugar level to give you more energy.
If you go to sleep at the same time each night, your mind will be refreshed the next day. This will help you to be more effective in any activity that you perform.
You said we were invited.
However, prolonged, extreme, or chronic stress can harm you. When your body is repeatedly or constantly on “high alert,” you may begin to suffer physically, emotionally, and mentally.
She advised him to take a long holiday.
I always walk to school.
The police informed us about the incident.
Listen to me very carefully.
She drew back when she saw a snake.
How should you wash your hands?
It is more challenging, however, to make decisions that reflect the proper view of success.
For at least an hour before bedtime, resist the urge to browse the Internet or send late-night texts to your friends.
Don't deceive him.
Instead, simply relate how your spouse’s actions affected you.
What are you doing next Monday?
He can't keep time.
He paid 1,000 yen for this book.
Why are you so interested in what Joojo was doing?
Instead of trying to defend your relationship with this person, stand up for your spouse and take steps to protect your marriage.
Could you tell me how to get to Osaka station?
Why did you say such a stupid thing?
I have to quit smoking.
She will without a doubt visit England this summer.
This is extremely confidential.
She wiped her face with a handkerchief.
The sea is to fish what the sky is to birds.
I have no time to help you with the work.
Your time is up.
He was my best friend.
This is a duplicate copy.
Are you satisfied now?
Joojo lost his temper and shouted at Efua.
Did I miss something?
My father has bought a new car.
After touching an animal or animal waste.
I want to be here when Joojo wakes up.
How long have you been in Australia?
What was it that you wanted me to tell Joojo?
The closer we get to a friend, the more likely we are to see his flaws.
He is determined to go to England.
That secret can't be kept forever.
They never showed up.
In other words, your attitude makes a difference! It can affect whether you attain a goal or give up or whether a tragic event brings out the best in you or the worst.
I thought a lot about what you said.
The effects are not reversible.
They never returned to their country.
Remind your child that everyone is superior to him in one way or another and that instead of being jealous of others’ skills and abilities, he can learn from them.
Take care of yourself. Get proper rest.
What an embarrassing situation that was!
Joojo painted the fence.
I can't change this.
For some people, money is more important than their marriage vows or even their life! In contrast, those who have a balanced view do not put their trust in money.
It wasn't real love.
What adjustments can you make to have a balanced diet?
At the same time, avoid fixing the problem for your child. Instead, help him create his own plan.
My mother takes a nap every afternoon.
It is even customary to ask how the animals are faring! “When a guest leaves a household, it isn’t enough to say, ‘Good-bye,’” says Joseph, a native of Cameroon.
To this day, she remains bitterly resentful of me.”
Identify and correct any attitudes that cause you to procrastinate.
I've learned a lot from you over the past year.
Find someone to exercise with you. A “workout buddy” will cheer you on and help you stick to a routine.
Shake my hand.
If the parent gives in, the child learns that tantrums are an effective way to get a no changed to a yes.
It's not a good idea to do that.
Abstract thinking allows your teenager to grapple with such complex issues. The downside? It can also cause him to grapple with you.
Both my father and my brother are fond of gambling.
Exercise can prolong your life
It was not long before we met again by chance.
I don't have the address now.
The fight resulted in several arrests.
Do not watch television.
But Josué enjoys a productive life helping others. “Rather than say, ‘I can’t do that,’” says Josué, “I enjoy thinking of practical ways to help people with their daily needs. I find ways to do things for others, and this fills my life with happiness.”
Sometimes it means that you simply need to let go of a matter, for your own well-being and that of your marriage.
Efua's husband is rich.
I can't believe Joojo said yes.
People expect you to be available 24/7. But to be fully rested, you need to put your phone away.
I don't know how to use this compass.
You cannot change your genes, but you can change your lifestyle. Doing what we can to improve our health is worth the effort.
Are you busy tomorrow afternoon?
We realized that the things we were working so hard to get—nicer clothes, a bigger house, and more expensive vacations—were not making us happy.
I saw her again.
Poyang Lake is the largest freshwater lake in China.
A grateful spirit has been called a building block of humility.
Do I let my children know that at times I also need help from others?
As a result, I became increasingly angry and violent. During my teens, I spent two years in a reform school. Later, I committed a brutal assault that landed me in a maximum-security prison.
Do you recycle?
Joojo left a message saying he'd be late.
Ask for help. Can you delegate a task or share the workload?
In fact, those traits appear to be getting worse, as reflected in the problems mentioned in the preceding article.
We have a tight schedule.
He plays cello exceptionally well.
I bought a camera.
Eat whole-grain bread, rice, and pasta—in moderation—rather than refined foods. Eat leaner meats, fish, nuts, and beans.
The young person with bloated self-esteem, unaware of her own deficiencies, is unlikely to do well in the job interview But the young person who is genuinely interested in what the recruiter has to say is more likely to get the job.
Joojo wanted Aku to pose in the nude for his painting, but she refused to do so.
Can you deliver it to my house?
If there are mistakes, correct them.
Why did I do that?
Marriage frightens some people.
I knew you'd get it.
I must speak with you alone.
I remember having seen her somewhere.
I have a lot of photos.
Consider the example of Stefan. He grew up in a Communist country but overcame his feelings of prejudice against people from non-Communist countries.
They do not mean any harm with their involvement.
He hung up.
Joojo is outside playing frisbee with his dog.
You shouldn't judge a person by his appearance.
She loves us.
It is not from just one big problem but from many situations, from struggles, and from seemingly unending years of caring for my physically and mentally ill husband.
I'm looking forward to your coming to Japan.
He took charge of the family business after his father died.
Try to see things from your mate’s perspective
It was shorter than she expected.
It's a good way to make friends.
Joojo is facing financial problems.
It also urged the public to volunteer leading information that would assist in arresting the suspected armed robbers, for a reward.
Have you gotten used to living in the dorm?
These are my books and those are his books.
You don't seem tired at all.
Joojo and Efua were in love.
What's your philosophy?
I got a shave and a haircut.
It's really stressful.
What is most important to you? Many people would likely put family relationships and good health near the top of their list. These are things that are likely to suffer if you are burned out.
Try to resolve the issue as soon as possible, and do not stop communicating.
I was employee of the year for three years.
I paid my bills.
My wife is preparing dinner right now.
Evidently, many people today would agree.
I'm very relaxed.
He tried to persuade her.
Adults should get 150 minutes of moderate activity or 75 minutes of vigorous activity every week.
I feel their pain.
Joojo asked me to buy some rope.
I've been trying to lose a little weight.
I'd love to hang out with you this weekend.
I go to the library two or three times a week.
Remember that your prospects for finding a different job are better while you are still employed.
She played a sonata.
It was on sale.
I was in London last month.
I felt emotionally drained, and I lost all motivation.
Are they all the same?
Did you talk about your hobby?
I think it's time for me to join the fight.
I don't want to hear any more excuses.
Do you have any grounds for thinking so?
Joojo is older than his wife.
For example, in fighting crime, governments enact laws, install video surveillance, and strengthen police forces.
Lie still.
Hurtful speech is more often a problem of the heart than of the mouth.
May I draw the curtains?
To make a long story short, we married.
I've gained five kilograms.
I thought he wouldn't come.
Let's take a train.
It is not uncommon for children to suffer from stress. Some are bullied at school or neglected at home
Do you really want to help Joojo?
Within 18 months, I lost a tenth of my body weight, and I feel great.
I am looking for a present for my mother.
I want to give you a bicycle for your birthday.
This is not what I ordered.
She asked him if he knew where I lived.
Violence and discrimination against women remained widespread in many countries
You can't come tomorrow.
He's a bad liar.
Is my attitude toward money adversely affecting my health and family life?
Do you see any problems with the project?
Let's not beat around the bush.
Joojo was given a blood transfusion.
In one recent year, more than 68 million people visited Spain. Most come for the sunshine, the golden beaches, and the country’s artistic, historical, and architectural treasures.
You don't know what you're doing.
This article is about type 2, which accounts for about 90 percent of all diabetes.
Who is that woman?
When did Joojo live in Boston?
Do what you believe is right.
It was my dream.
After his arrest, he led the police to the crime scene -his house- where he pointed to the police his deceased wife, lying in a pool of blood with the gun beside her.
With a busy schedule, I have to make time for good food and sleep, but finding time to exercise has always been more challenging.
Do not be a perfectionist. Avoid setting unrealistically high standards for yourself or others.
How has our child demonstrated responsibility for his or her actions?
Come at two o'clock.
I started to make healthy swaps, one per day. For example, instead of eating a candy bar, I ate an apple.
Joojo wanted Efua to look for John.
I didn't want to be a burden.
The name New Zealand is derived from Zeeland, a region in the Netherlands. The Maori name Aotearoa means “Land of the Long White Cloud.”
The Encyclopedia of Social Psychology observes that people tend to envy their equals, perhaps in age, experience, or social background.
A study in the United States revealed that drivers aged 16 to 24 were “nearly twice as likely to be drowsy at the time of their crash” when compared with drivers aged 40 to 59.
On the other hand, if he develops the ability to restrain himself when provoked​—or to wait patiently rather than interrupt—​people will be drawn to him.
I just went to check something.
Other girls find that keeping a journal helps them put their stress in perspective.
Were you shot?
The children told me they loved strawberry ice cream.
She's loved by her friends.
Most adults report being under increasing levels of stress,” says the well-known Mayo Clinic.
We are not alone.
There was something odd about the way Joojo looked at me yesterday.
It seems Joojo knows Efua.
Under stress it is not always easy to keep calm, and you can quickly say or do things that hurt your partner.
Joojo is in bed.
Tell me about your plan.
The evidence was against me.
He promised not to be late again.
Stay away from the fire.
Nevertheless, consider the following four steps for dealing with burnout. You may have more options than you realize.
Stay out of my business.
It took all evening.
Call me when you're ready.
We don't need you.
How could you just walk out the door without saying goodbye?
Feeling empathy for deaf people helped me to counteract the prejudice I had.
I didn’t know what was wrong with me. It was as if my emotions were out of control.”
What does Joojo think of your music?
You want me to get a better job, but I don't think I can.
New Zealand boasts an odd assortment of wildlife, with more species of flightless birds than anywhere else in the world. It is also home to the tuatara, a lizardlike reptile that can live for up to 100 years! The only indigenous mammals are a few species of bats and some large marine mammals, including whales and dolphins.
Laws are necessary.
Of course, such commitment is two-way, and it requires hard work and sacrifice on both sides.
Do not forget to turn the light off before you go to bed.
Most students are preparing for the final exams.
I am not afraid.
The facts of the case were that on July 17, 2021, a police patrol team on the Buipe-Yapei stretch on night patrols stopped a motorbike being used by Joli with Braima as the pillion
You have to study harder.
Reports of domestic violence raise the questions: How can a man come to the point of treating anyone—let alone his wife—so outrageously? Can men who batter their wives be helped?
I just wanted to make that clear.
You may come if you like.
She made it plain that she wanted to go to college.
I want the young members to be more active.
I admit it won't be easy.
This is hard for you, isn't it?
I need that phone.
You not only feel bad, but when you are sick, you may not be able to go to work or school, earn any money, or look after your family.
She detests speaking in public.
Life has smoothed out. We are much happier.
I'll do everything I can.
Which one is more likely to feel satisfied with her relationships?
Avoid making excuses. For example, you don’t need to sign up at a gym to start your exercise program.
I regret having said so.
But for the storm, I would have arrived earlier.
There used to be a tall tree near the temple.
When does it arrive?
The girl wore a yellow ribbon in her hair.
Joojo is snoring.
Joojo decided not to buy the car he was looking at yesterday.
I'm twelve years old.
Was Joojo ever married?
Consider some of the challenges that face us and what it will take to make this world a safe and secure place to live.
A materialistic lifestyle does not guarantee satisfaction. In fact, it tends to do the opposite.
The cleaning lady interrupted the conversation.
I wanted to speak in French with Joojo.
Young children might test a parent’s resolve by throwing a tantrum​—perhaps even in public.
Exercise can help you look your best.
The next time you are offended by something that your spouse said or did, ask yourself: ‘Is the situation really that important?
What is your biggest obstacle to exercise? Overcoming that obstacle will take some work, but the results will be worth it.
Joojo goes running every day.
To tell the truth, I do not like him.
Others are abused physically, emotionally, or sexually.
Joojo often helps Efua.
I'm hesitant.
More than 68 million people have had to leave their homes, largely because of conflict or persecution.
In this way, he will take charge of the problem rather than become a victim of it.
Joojo's phone is ringing.
I went there out of curiosity.
Many would say that they control their devices, not the other way around.
I turned on the radio.
By the time you see the need to change, it may be too late.
What do you think about the Japanese economy?
Joojo hardly ever loses at chess.
You probably know people who fit the profile of Brian and Brittney. You might even feel that you are like them.
The Japanese government made an important decision.
The lovers exchanged numerous letters.
She has never sung a song with him.
Do not be quick to assume bad motives. A person may cut ahead of you in a line. If you attribute his act to rudeness, you may become upset. Instead, why not assume that his motive was good? You may be right!
You don't have to sound like a native speaker in order to communicate.
You live in my heart.
They're boys.
A resilient person bounces back from obstacles and disappointments.
I'm certainly glad to see you.
It's important for today's young people to study English.
For example, do you stay out late with friends? Do you feel overloaded with homework and chores? Does your cell phone keep you up past your bedtime or wake you up after you’ve gone to sleep?
He made me so angry that I got a headache.
Where are the books? "They're on the desk."
What are you doing tonight?
My mother is angry.
She listens to him.
Exercise has huge health benefits for the future, and it can be rewarding right now.
The shop was crowded with young people.
The walls of my room are green.
I fear this won't end well.
In turn, I often think, ‘How can I make him happy?’ As a result, we have laughed a lot, and we still do.
Workplace burnout is more than mere tiredness, and it goes beyond the ordinary stress of everyday work.
Establish a routine, and stick to it. If you have a set time that you regularly go to sleep, your body will naturally learn to follow that schedule.
Joojo will love it.
They erroneously believe that they are to blame.
Yeah. I think so, too.
Tell me what's going on.
In the past, I thought that deaf people were strange, intellectually impaired, and overly sensitive. So I avoided them.
The light is out.
That is her house.
They started kissing.
If we focus too much on how different others are from us, we could conclude that such differences are flaws or defects.
I was kept waiting for an eternity.
Today, modern technology allows us to make hundreds, or even thousands, of social network “friends” by merely adding their names to our list of computer contacts.
Are the traits that I dislike about that person actually bad, or are they just different?
Both victims screamed for help which attracted some residents to the two crime scenes, the statement said.
Joojo should be home by 2:30.
Meals in Indonesia normally include rice along with other dishes—often spicy—and fruit. In some areas, families eat sitting on a woven mat, using their fingers to dip food into the rice.
She fixed us a snack.
Dugout canoes are a common sight on the Sanaga River. Sails are made from whatever materials are available
What did you tell Joojo?
If you're busy, I can do that for you.
We had a nice time last night.
Joojo won't get here until 2:30.
How long have you worked here?
I have an appointment with my uncle tomorrow.
The hospital said the arrest was done through a special operation.
On the other hand, it does not endorse the storybook fantasy that if you simply ‘follow your dreams’ all your wishes will come true.
Have you already fed the dog?
It was cool.
Joojo wanted to paint the fence white.
Simplifying was not as hard as I thought it would be. We reduced our frequency of eating out and ate at home.
She left her umbrella in the train.
The old man sat surrounded by the children.
Studies have shown that a large percentage of those who use public toilets do not wash their hands afterward or do not wash them correctly.
The girl resembled her mother.
You look pale today.
I love your car.
Joojo's wife is pregnant with twins.
This medicine does not have side effects.
The sun was shining and it was warm, so I took the day off.
I knew something wasn't right.
How much is the fine for speeding?
Envy is defined as “the painful or resentful awareness of an advantage enjoyed by another, accompanied by a desire to possess the same advantage.
I hate liars.
I think it's time for me to say what I really think.
I can't help you if you don't trust me.
I wanted my hair cut short.
The sacred ritual took place after being postponed twice.
This song makes me happy.
After being married for a time, you might begin to find reassurance in the company of a friend of the opposite sex.
The people who live in the rural areas of Cameroon are particularly hospitable.
Joojo and Aku can't be in the same room.
It'd be a disaster.
I didn't like beer at that time.
He emptied his glass.
Joojo isn't the kind of person who blames others for his mistakes.
In fact, the book Good to Great notes that company leaders who have achieved long-term success “display a compelling modesty, are self-effacing and understated.
Life is unpredictable. A person who is rich today might be poor tomorrow; a person who is healthy today might be sick tomorrow.
He was playing with a toy.
Andrea focuses most of her attention on herself. She refuses to do things for others unless they do things for her first. She reasons, ‘Why should I waste my time on people who give me nothing in return?’
He spent the evening reading a book.
Joojo needs help.
I don't like your behavior.
What have you got there in your pocket?
Never allow the love of money to take root in your heart. Rather, keep money in its place—always subordinate to friends, family, and your emotional and physical health.
I recognized her the moment I saw her.
He popped the trunk.
Domestic violence is a worldwide epidemic, crossing cultural, economic, and social groups.
Joojo expects the worst.
Joojo came to my house yesterday morning.
I may as well go now.
I want to reach the hotel before it gets dark.
That's a fir tree.
Joojo has decided not to go to college.
The two of you can talk about anything, and you do.
We sat in a ring.
Joojo is embarrassed.
I'm doing my homework.
I said nothing.
You can be open and direct without being rude.
Take advantage of informal moments. For example, some parents have found that teenagers are more apt to open up while doing chores or while riding in the car, when they are side-by-side with a parent rather than face-to-face.
They're making too much noise. I can't concentrate.
It's the story of a boy, a girl, and a cat.
How did you realize that you were in danger of developing diabetes?
Cook until the food reaches the right temperature, and promptly refrigerate any perishable items that are not going to be eaten immediately.
Marlay sets off each dawn as soon as the cock crows.
His prediction has come true.
Where's the other one?
Some husbands and wives withhold forgiveness to maintain a sort of power over their spouse.
I can read.
If this is happening in your marriage, you can stop the pattern. First, though, you need to consider the causes and why it is in your best interests to make changes.
Joojo tossed the rotten apple into the garbage can.
Joojo knew Efua had threatened John.
It is hard to adapt this story for children.
Agreeing on a good solution is not enough. You need to follow through on what you both decide. This may involve hard work and much effort, but it will be worth it.
Before preparing, serving, or eating food.
That's what you get for not listening.
Let us sit down.
There are two major types of diabetes. Type 1 starts mainly in childhood, and presently doctors do not know how to prevent it.
A big earthquake occurred in India yesterday.
This is the church where Blake is buried.
Which are the prime numbers?
This door is locked from the inside.
When sharing a meal, sometimes a group of friends will eat from the same plate—at times, with their hands.
Some husbands have threatened to harm or even kill their wife if she tried to escape. A number have carried out that threat.
I hope he will succeed in his new position.
Where did you get it?
For example, genuine happiness is linked to finding contentment, avoiding envy, cultivating love for others, and building mental and emotional resilience. Let us see why.
Joojo thinks that Efua drinks too much coffee.
Sayings like “All your dreams can come true” and “You can be anything that you want to be” might sound inspiring, but they often do not prove true in real life.
Life has taught me that all of us have faults and virtues. To be honest, I have become a better person as a result of admiring and imitating the virtues of people who are very different from me racially and culturally.
We rented the apartment.
These are richer in nutrients and fiber than the alternatives made from refined grain.
An orphan at three, he was brought up by a distant relative.
Empathy will also help us to respect others. Anne-Marie, from Senegal, once looked down on people who came from so-called lower castes.
If such measures fail, can you reduce the time you spend with the person?
For example, Isabel, whose experience is referred to at the outset of this article, left her husband. She states: “My sister was angry with me and urged me to return to him—she did not believe that such a ‘good’ man could be so cruel.
The kind of physical activity that is right for you depends on your age and your health, so it would be wise to consult your doctor before beginning any new exercise program.
What did you just say?
I am six feet tall.
The work here is fairly simple.
Most whales feed on plankton.
Joojo drank way too much last night.
By working together, you can ensure that your marriage will be strong and happy rather than weak and miserable.
Joojo looked out the front window.
They sat around the table to play cards.
All four. The world’s largest flower is three feet (91 cm) in diameter, and the tallest flower is ten feet (3 m) high.
Carbohydrates can give you energy. Proteins can help your body fight infection and also build and repair tissues.
He can't be trusted.
Best of all, I know that I’m taking care of my body.
You'll never be alone.
Empathy helps us to see that all people are part of the human family
Are you satisfied or dissatisfied?
I'd like to help, but I can't.
And instead of using solid fats for cooking, you may want to use healthier oils.
Tell me about your family.
The work environment was chaotic,” he states, “and all the responsibility fell on me.
Once I start playing, I don’t even consider it exercise.
Cardiovascular health.
After winning all the matches, he got the title of champion.
We worked our bills down and kept our expenses low.
He held on firmly to the branch.
It's absurd never to admit your mistakes.
Not knowing what to do, she remained silent.
Can you manage to carry the suitcase by yourself?
Joojo kicked the trash can.
Why don't you go to bed?
I had extremes of very-high-calorie binge days and very-low-calorie strict days.
The way your body processes food is disrupted. Too much stress can lead to nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation
I know the man sitting over there.
Joojo wants to leave, but he can't.
I am looking for a house to rent.
Just find an activity that you enjoy and make it part of your routine.
That was our first encounter.
I want to leave early.
We have had plenty of rain this year.
What did I do that for?
We want them to know that we will not compare them to others either.
I hope you're lucky.
Men are better at this than women.
Someone is obviously telling a lie.
We have less than two hours.
Unless circumstances require it, do not check work-related e-mail outside of working hours.
How would you like your child to be known as an adult? Controlled, Humble, Resilient, Responsible, Mature, Honest
If you use a credit card, try to pay off your balance in full each month to avoid paying interest. If you are in debt, set up a repayment plan, and then stick to it.
Do you know the reason why she is so angry?
After all, fair treatment is not always equal, and equal treatment is not always fair.
I told him the big news.
Do what you can.
That scenario is unlikely.
They're not mine.
She has been watching television for three hours.
Insufficient sleep has been linked to obesity, depression, heart disease, diabetes, and tragic accidents.
Nobody taught me.
Do you know when he will come?
Why are people afraid of Joojo?
I just meant to scare Joojo, not to hurt him.
We shouldn't lose hope.
But it’s worth the effort in the long run, and it can also save you money.
That club is way too big.
Araba and Joojo experienced happy times together.
He always wanted to call attention to himself.
I just wanted to ask a question.
In contrast, two thirds of the comparison companies had leaders with gargantuan personal egos that contributed to the demise or continued mediocrity of the company.
It's your fault.
These are just some of the issues that divide people.
Like most people, you probably agree that good friends are important.
What's your favorite symphony?
They all know.
His condition changed for the worse.
I love to write.
Thinking only in terms of the next major promotion, making more money or acquiring more stuff, fails to feed the soul,” writes career counselor Tom Denham.
None of these games are interesting.
When using chemicals, such as chlorine or water-purifying tablets, follow the maker’s directions carefully.
Her garden is a work of art.
He asked us not to make any noise.
I can help you.
Joojo asked Aku to drive John to the airport.
Joojo waited under the tree until it stopped raining.
It will only take a few minutes.
Who can it possibly be?
Muntom allegedly told the police that in the course of the quarrel, he went to his room for his single barrel gun and shot her.
How does the film end?
It's great to have a family.
When it is your turn to listen, resist the urge to interrupt. You will get your turn to speak
What sound does a giraffe make?
I tried to blend in.
I'd like to be alone now.
Harboring resentment is like slapping yourself and then expecting the other person to feel the pain.
I'll come and see you at 3:00 p.m. on Sunday.
You speak French very well. I wish I could speak it as well as you.
Sorry, we're full today.
Remember that sweeping generalizations about groups of people do not apply to all individuals of that group.
Dinner's ready.
The world is not what it used to be.
My house has two bedrooms.
The stress response begins in your brain.
It urged staff of the facility to be watchful about their environment while on duty.
She sued him for damages.
The longer we stare at commercial apps on our screens, the more profitable we become to advertisers.
What's taking so long?
They might be taller than you.
Both cases resulted in the Jews becoming victims of extreme prejudice, some of which is still evident today.
I am ironing my dress.
What have you bought Joojo for Christmas?
They peered inside.
When a stressful episode is over, your body comes off “high alert” and returns to normal.
That shipment's been very much delayed.
Let's keep going.
The police found her body a day later. She had taken a fatal overdose.
What is your number?
For example, Beijing will issue no more than 240,000 registrations per year.
Jupiter is the largest planet in the Solar System.
Joojo sat reading.
First, though, consider why you might have become entangled in such a relationship.
He is her friend.
I used to be known as the girl whose father makes loads of money. So I often got comments such as: ‘If you want something, all you have to do is ask Daddy’ or ‘Sorry we aren’t all rich and can afford nice cars like your family.
If you’re not performing your best at sports, you might think you just need to practice more.
It took me ages to pack up my suitcases.
I'm in a gang.
False success is different. Under its influence you can think you are winning when in fact you are losing.
Is there a toilet near here?
I missed the last bus and had to walk home in the rain.
She felt her heart beat quickly.
Joojo got a promotion.
After he left, my mother took up with another man, and he also beat her. He also raped my sister—and me.
Both are alive.
Chinese characters are very beautiful.
You’ll never say, ‘I wish I hadn’t gone on that hike or that run,’” says a young woman named Tonya. “When I have put my excuses aside and exercised, I have never regretted it.
Janet is a middle-school student who studies diligently and loves to learn.
She stole my clothes!
Joojo made Araba laugh.
His point? While we may need money to survive, we should avoid greed, for it is insatiable!
Thank you very much for your thoughtful present.
I'm not working for Joojo.
We should not resort to violence.
Congress finally approved Wilson's proposals.
Then, I tried to frighten her by threatening to kill our son while holding a knife to his throat.
We've got to catch the lion alive.
Joojo got embarrassed.
Jovica, quoted earlier in this series of articles, grew up hearing his countrymen, the news, and television programs give negative reports about a minority group.
Is there an English-Japanese dictionary on the bookshelf?
A person who is content is not immune to financial anxiety; however, he knows how to put his anxiety in perspective.
Kimchi is a traditional Korean dish.
Empathy helps us to see that all people, no matter what their background may be, are part of the human family.
I'm going to see her tomorrow.
Take control.
A dog is running in the park.
Alex owns a business. He is honest, hardworking, and courteous.
His bicycle is different from this one.
This house has two bathrooms.
Your child needs to understand that actions have consequences and that a lack of self-control will therefore have undesirable results.
Joojo never talks about his kids.
Joojo isn't Efua's father, but her uncle.
Frank and Jerry were good neighbors—that is, until Jerry held a late-night party.
We have a long story to tell you.
I think a movie is more entertaining than any book.
Efua loses her temper easily.
Joojo thinks we're in some kind of rut.
Joojo doesn't necessarily have to go there by himself.
Try to go to bed and get up at the same time every day.
Happy Thanksgiving!
Joojo worked overtime.
Can I do this later?
To prepare for such a change, reduce expenses and save money.
Joojo hid Efua's doll behind the door.
One of my brothers plays the bassoon.
Experts claim, however, that the risk of type 2 diabetes can be reduced. A little knowledge of this insidious disease may prove helpful to you.
I live next door to the toy shop.
Joojo is with Araba.
Electronic components can be cleaned using pure isopropyl alcohol.
Wild animals live in the forest.
There is little time left.
The taxi driver Felix Ansah will be put before court on Monday, September 13, 2021.
It was too small.
It was very windy.
Could you pass me the salt, please?
How much is this clock?
I have not understood anything.
Of course, some teenagers want more freedom than they should have; on the other hand, some parents grant less freedom than they could.
When I woke up, there was a burglar in my room.
The frescoes of the cathedral are very interesting.
Do you burn yourself out working too hard, not taking time for the more important things of life?
I went to church this morning.
What parent would not beam with pride at the man their daughter married? He is so kind to her.
Did Fiifi spill something again?
If you overspend in one category, take money from another to cover the difference.
It looks good.
When I was finally released, I moved to Australia, hoping for a fresh start.
Joojo couldn't get Efua on the phone.
Paul didn't die in a car accident.
We still have more time.
Give me one good reason.
Joojo bought a piece of land not far from where Efua lives.
You run.
A 45-year-old farmer, has handed himself over to the police after allegedly shooting his wife to death.
I still don't feel right.
Keep technology in its place. Avoid constantly checking e-mail, texts, or social media sites.
Where are you taking us?
We still have ten miles to go.
He has never told a lie.
What can you do if you and your spouse have let hurtful speech erode your relationship?
It's raining very hard.
Joojo doesn't want pity.
Joojo ducked for cover.
Does my child see me work through frustrating situations without losing my temper?
She gave him a massage.
Running also increases my heart rate and helps me to burn calories.
Joojo began to eat.
Joojo said Araba would come.
I do not like to make mistakes.
I'd like to reserve a table for three.
Hang on a sec.
Each time a conflict arises, you and your spouse unleash a torrent of criticism at each other.
Are you going to run every day?
Spanish food also attracts many visitors. Typical fare includes seafood, cured hams, rich stews, salads, and vegetables cooked or seasoned with olive oil. Spanish omelets, paella, and tapas are renowned the world over.
Joojo looked over the documents carefully.
Such ones may become overcommitted and find themselves on the road to burnout.
We're tired.
Joojo always speaks in French.
It was a lot of fun.
A close friendship might make you wonder what life might have been like had you married this person.
Develop healthful habits. Physical activity can lift your mood and improve your body’s response to stress. Eat nutritious food, and try to avoid skipping meals. Be sure to get enough rest.
I'm too old for this.
The bus had already left when I reached the stop.
Was Joojo with Aku?
Even the spread of deadly Ebola can be minimized by the simple habit of washing hands.
Daddy, I can't walk any more. Could you give me a piggyback ride?
Do you like this blouse?
Do you play the guitar?
He arrived here safely yesterday.
Joojo doesn't know anything about Efua's past.
This is obscene.
You are always welcome.
To be sure, reaching a goal or obtaining something we have desired can make us happy, but that kind of happiness can be fleeting.
I think that Joojo and Efua are in trouble.
I must get it fixed.
My father always gets nervous.
I need this money.
My eyes are sore.
He was pleased with the toy.
Start by wanting to be a good friend yourself.
Natto smells awful, but tastes delicious.
My head really aches.
I meet new people every day.
On the American flag, there's a star for every state.
How much you eat can be as important as what you eat. So, while enjoying your food, do not keep eating after you are no longer hungry.
This conversation is being recorded.
Wayne and Marie are a married couple in their early 30’s who live in the United States.
The boy fell from the bridge.
Where's Joojo? "He's playing tennis with Efua."
He went to prison for that. Of course, I realize that none of this excuses my behavior.
This diet is full of vitamins.
So be balanced about exercise. People who take working out to extremes often come across as vain.
I think Joojo is forgetful.
OK. I agree.
THE Baka—also known as Pygmies—were likely the first inhabitants of Cameroon. Then, in the 1500’s, the Portuguese arrived.
He sent her a message.
This chair is broken.
The land was subsequently occupied by Visigoths and Moors, all of whom left their cultural legacy.
We feed our dog three times a day.
How can you recognize envy? Ask yourself: ‘Do a peer’s successes delight or deflate me?
If you are concerned about how much the relatives are involved in your life, discuss it with your mate when things are calm
When we empathize with someone, we become aware of just how similar we are to that person.
Is Joojo big?
Please telephone him.
Have you told everyone when and where the meeting will be?
Forget your troubles for a while and come and have dinner with us.
The girl was aware of the danger.
I am not pleased with what you have done.
The trail has gone cold.
If you start relaxing before it’s time to go to bed, you will likely fall asleep more quickly.
One day I encountered a prominent member of the rival political group that I mentioned earlier, a man named Augusto.
Really, how successful will you feel if you are at the top of your profession but lose your health or the respect of your family?
Everybody agreed with his idea.
He is now on the way to recovery.
Did you know he bought a condominium?
Your teen’s abstract thinking skills are like muscles that need to be developed.
If tempers are beginning to flare and speech is getting out of hand, it might be best to postpone the discussion.
You must prepare for the worst.
Does Joojo know?
Joojo didn't have enough space to do what he wanted to do.
Who's your favorite song writer?
Add up these figures.
But in reality it is not. A simpler lifestyle can bring greater freedom and satisfaction.
It looks as if it is going to rain.
For example, when your child tests your patience, do you react with anger or do you remain calm?
A large proportion of diabetes patients die of heart attacks or stroke.
Actually, you're right.
I spoke to my uncle on the telephone.
Stop. You're making me blush.
Would you teach me how to make cheese?
I’ll be happy when I land that job.
I am washing the windows.
It’s better to make it a goal to improve your health, not just your appearance.
He has a nice income.
I do not remember any of it.
Do we use a digital device as a babysitter to keep our child occupied?
I'd like to reconfirm my reservation.
Joojo became a Japanese citizen.
Joojo shot Efua.
If you said that Cal and Ellen​—or all four individuals—​were successful, you might be measuring success by results only, regardless of the means by which those results were achieved.
The average of 7, 10, and 16 is 11.
Can you fix the broken radio?
I reckon that I'm right.
There's a cure for everything, except death.
Tell me what Joojo said.
I like drinking beer and wine.
Humility allows us to recognize that in some areas of life others are superior.
Joojo shut the window.
I took my shoes off and threw them out the window.
I am joking.
I sell cars.
Have you found any good solution?
Aerobic exercise can also help prevent coronary artery disease—a leading cause of death for both men and women.
Stop reading.
If I had been a bird, I could have flown to you.
Before he began, he made it clear that what he was about to tell me was a true story that happened in Kumasi, specifically in a suburb called Asokwa.
Still, there is much you can do to slow down or even prevent the onset of illness.
I prefer milk to juice.
Joojo told the judge that he was innocent.
I blame no one but myself.
It’s expensive to stay in shape—you have to pay if you want to go to a gym!
I'm sure you're very busy.
Yet, evidence suggests that some things are more consistently associated with happiness.
Joojo talks to you more than he talks to any other girl.
Can you play the guitar? "Yes, I can."
If you were an employer, which of those two men would you be more likely to hire or keep on your payroll?
What can help you to remain firm? Keeping to the commitments that you have made.
Thanks to texting, email, videoconferencing, and social media, two people can communicate easily, even when they live continents apart.
I'm not going to say it wasn't easy.
We’re not doing our kids any favors when we teach them that the world will always serve up whatever they want on a silver platter.
Joojo's parents don't want Joojo and Efua to live together until after they are married.
Do you play soccer?
I opened the door slowly.
What can I do to understand how my mate really feels about the problem?
Our lack of empathy can be a symptom of a deeper problem​—prejudice.
I'd like to run a big stock farm.
If you work hard to avoid repeating the same mistake, you will give your spouse confidence that your apology was genuine.
They called.
This coffee is so hot that I can't drink it.
I know what we need.
They may have no time or energy left to enjoy what they worked for.
I wonder why Joojo didn't go to the concert.
Humility, mildness, and patience will help you build a warm relationship with your relatives and continue “putting up with one another in love.
I like to eat Korean food.
This year we had more snow than last year.
Joojo is sitting on his bunk.
Where is the lost and found?
Joojo was convicted on Monday.
Joojo put the key into his pocket.
The train is packed today.
You should be a writer.
There was nothing left over.
These increase your heart rate, your blood pressure, and the glucose levels in your blood​—all of which enable you to respond quickly to danger.
I should have left the camera battery recharging.
Consult your doctor.
I wish you hadn't done that.
These tomatoes don't have any taste.
Joojo won't leave if you don't want him to.
My shoes are worn out.
I hate my computer.
Your muscles tense up to protect you from injury.
Japan is a beautiful country.
I broke my back.
He's a gardener.
The silver tree fern can grow to more than 30 feet (10 m) tall
Joojo and Efua got divorced last year.
Can I take a day off?
It's very big.
The causes of conflict are complex and varied, and not everyone is eager to respond to overtures of peace.
We like a reasonable amount of order in life. One thing that can contribute to disorder​—and stress—​is procrastination, and this may lead to a growing list of unfinished tasks.
Let me finish eating my sandwich.
Joojo looks really hurt.
The students are happy, but the teachers are not.
It doesn't even matter.
I like French cooking.
Joojo found the keys he thought he had lost.
Many who grieve feel guilt for things they did or said to the person, since there is now no way to make amends.
THE LOSS OF A JOB, says the American Psychological Association, “can be devastating, putting unemployed workers at risk for physical illness, marital strain, anxiety, depression and even suicide. Loss of a job affects every part of life.
I don't think I'll ever sound like a native speaker.
The height of most adult Pygmies is between four feet (1.2 m) and four feet eight inches (1.42 m)
I assisted her in moving the furniture.
Children will not develop these traits on their own. They need your guidance.
She bought a Chinese fan.
Without knowing the facts, we make bad decisions. If we believe myths rather than facts, we will misjudge people.
Remember, too, that the euphoria you experience when you think about your friend is probably the same feeling you initially had for the person you married.
True friends will tell you the truth—even if they know it will hurt—because they have your best interests at heart
Sleep is often the first thing teenagers neglect. Without it, however, your daughter’s thinking skills will be weakened and so will her ability to ward off stress.​
In many restaurants in Turkey, kebab is the main entree.
You can do something similar for your marriage.
He did it as he had been told.
It's a nice place, but I wouldn't live there.
Even though our daughter was allowed to become frustrated or angry, she wasn’t allowed to let those feelings exasperate those around her.
Her name was spelled wrong.
Maybe I should do it.
Daniel, who lives in a South American country that has a failing economy, says: “We once had normal lives. We did not dread armed robbery. But now there no longer exists a peaceful town or village. The failing economy has revealed what many people are really like​—greedy and lacking in respect for the life or property of others.
He declined the offer and so did I.
Workaholics can deprive themselves of the benefits of their “two handfuls of hard work.”
The sickness is taking its course.
Modern life is filled with change and uncertainty.
Remember it.
In her book Teach Your Children Well, Dr. Madeline Levine writes: “Part of feeling successful at something is being good at it and most of being good at something has to do with effort and persistence.
Recognize that your mate too, as a son or a daughter, needs to give attention to his or her parents.
There were no hats in that store that fit me.
The tourists were fascinated with the exquisite scenery.
War began five years later.
The police are investigating the murder.
For example, I had the impression that the deaf were intellectually handicapped because when I spoke to them, they would look at me blankly.
I think you should tell Joojo that.
After using the toilet.
Do you believe that mankind can solve the many problems that rob us of peace and security and that threaten our future?
You told me it wouldn't rain today, so I didn't bring an umbrella.
I have a fear of the dark.
My wife and I made it our aim to let our children know when they made us proud.
We'd better go home now.
Such measures are simple but can avert illness and save lives.
Beware of pressure to adopt the priorities of others around you as your own.
Joojo and Araba are good friends.
Each of them has his own car.
This is Joojo's favorite book.
What's your favorite alcoholic beverage?
If you happen to hear of anybody that wants to buy a house, please let me know.
The atomic number for iron is 26.
Many spouses withhold forgiveness because they misunderstand what extending it will mean.
Her message sounded like a desperate plea for attention.
That was a sight for sore eyes.
Giving up smoking is the easiest thing in the world. I know because I've done it thousands of times.
I have a headache now.
You have to pay in advance.
We both laughed.
Just as a child cannot learn how to walk without an occasional fall, he cannot learn how to succeed in life without experiencing occasional setbacks.
He killed that man.
Joojo has already seen it.
At first, he was very cautious. But I greeted him warmly, suggested that we forget our differences, and invited him to my home.
Handle water containers with clean hands, and do not dip your hands or fingers into water used for drinking.
My girlfriend was crying.
Come to a mutual agreement on how you will take care of these matters
The Police in the Ashanti and Upper East regions have clamped down on the use of unregistered motorbikes as part of efforts to curb crime, ensure discipline on the roads and reduce road traffic accidents in the two regions.
I have no small change on me.
He regrets having neglected his studies in his school days.
I like dogs better than cats.
Much of Spain is clothed with wheat fields, grapevines, and olive trees.
The house is on top of the hill.
She gave me this compact disc.
I was going to tell you.
And this is so despite the vast amount of information that is available today, not to mention our unprecedented ability to communicate with others!
But know this: Having such needs fulfilled by someone other than your spouse comes at a cost.
I assume you've had breakfast.
He hung it on the wall.
Let's go up.
At times, a friend may need advice or even correction, and that may not always be easy to give.
The more I thought about the problem, the more difficult it seemed.
I don't want to go back to Boston.
You won't die.
I had a really good time yesterday.
Joojo is always busy.
When the judge speaks, everyone in the courtroom listens.
And when we wish to end one of these “friendships,” we simply delete that person’s name from our list.
It is important to understand your parents’ feelings and their point of view.
Acknowledge that others are strong in areas where you are weak. Do not assume that all people from a particular group have the same flaws.
I'm sure I've seen him somewhere before.
Do not watch TV or use gadgets while in bed.
Somebody called.
It is cold all year here.
Where are you going on your honeymoon?
It is important for your child to learn how to establish priorities and stick to them. Have your child do the important things first. For example, he should put homework before recreation.
I promise to work hard.
The telephone is one of Bell's many inventions.
In addition, fitness inspiration can backfire.
Why are you drinking water?
I chose to ignore the problem.
It's too bad you can't come to the party.
A medical disorder known as prediabetes—a condition in which blood sugar is moderately higher than normal—often precedes type 2 diabetes.
Joojo can play the harmonica and the guitar at the same time.
We're going to have to be very careful.
Does money make me feel important?
It pains me to disagree with your opinion.
Unselfish giving brings deep satisfaction to the giver. Why? Because we were created to do more than simply look after our own needs.
Joojo hates all of us.
It smells good!
She asked us several questions.
You know what I need.
Joojo is a good customer.
Most recover without lasting ill effects, but some die from it. What can you do to minimize the risk?
My girlfriend hasn't met my parents yet.
I have to unpack my luggage.
To become a responsible adult, your teenager must, in a figurative sense, gradually move from the passenger seat to the driver’s seat and learn to navigate life’s treacherous roadways.
Unfortunately, it's raining today.
What do you think of Japan?
I am out of work.
Joojo found his new job interesting.
I'll definitely miss you.
The school is on the hill.
I went to Boston last year.
Is this your sack or hers?
I like to go and watch baseball games.
He doesn't live in my neighborhood.
Joojo doesn't know what to do.
The drunken man couldn't walk straight.
One study found that many people felt worse after browsing through a popular social media platform.
She felt insecure about her future.
You think you're pretty smart, don't you?
He sang and sang.
Beneficial stress enables you to act or react quickly. A certain amount of stress can also help you to reach your goals or to perform better, perhaps during an exam, a job interview, or a sporting event.
Gas was escaping from a crack in the pipe.
I want to speak with you.
Joojo wondered how long he'd have to wait for Araba.
He is an expert in astronomy.
This patient's life is in danger.
Joojo was looking at some girls in bikinis.
I have an appointment with the dentist at 3 o'clock.
There will be conflicts, but the outcome depends on the spirit we show.
I bought an old lamp.
I remembered everybody.
As the patient came out of a coma, she looked at Jonathan’s face and uttered a taunt with an expletive, revealing her deep-seated disdain for Koreans.
I feel so bad.
My father asked me to open the window.
How many friends do you have?
In 2011 in Italy, the sale of bicycles exceeded the sale of cars.
If you harbor resentment, you are hurting yourself.
What if I report him and the situation gets worse?’
I have lunch with the manager almost every day.
For example, one wife who was both verbally and physically battered by her husband says: “I found the insults harder to bear than the violence.
Maintaining the right balance of hormones that impact metabolism and weight.
It was easy.
The role of money in society is incredibly important,” writes one financial editor. “If money was removed as a means of exchange, we would be in a state of panic and war within a month
You can never be too careful.
I suppose you could say that.
That study led Professor Angela Duckworth of the University of Pennsylvania to conclude: “There may be no such thing as ‘too much’ self-control
It’s not about numbers but about quality.
The students learned many poems by heart.
He denied that fact.
Since all of us are plagued with this human tendency—often with disastrous consequences—is there any hope that we can overcome or eliminate prejudice in our life? And will we ever see a time when the whole world will be free of prejudice?
I'm going bald.
I won't forget that.
If you have hurt your spouse in some way, sincerely apologize. Even if you do not agree with your spouse’s view of the matter, you can ask forgiveness for what you have done that resulted in hurt feelings.
Lasting happiness is not based solely on achievements or acquisitions. Rather, like good physical health, true happiness depends on a variety of factors.
True, we need to be selective about the people we befriend. But that does not mean narrowing our choice of friends to those of a certain age or upbringing.
You're not responsible.
The job is almost finished.
The suspects were picked at the surgical ward while they attempted to steal “several” pints of blood.
I can't give Joojo everything he wants.
If negative role models have influenced your manner of communicating, look for good examples.
Better late than never.
Fancy meeting you here!
To avoid excessive pride, we need to cultivate its opposite​—humility.
Your behavior, including the way you treat others, may change.
My desktop has gotten cluttered.
Children should appreciate nature and how much we depend on it for survival.
Take off your clothes.
That just baffles me.
The studio is very small, with no place to hide.
Do not burden your daughter with too many extracurricular activities.
I went to Joojo's house the night before he died.
Egotism can lead to prejudice. An egotistical person has an inflated opinion of his own worth.
Recognizing this simple truth can help us to be understanding toward our friends.
This is Ghanem’s first visit to Ghana since becoming Vice President in 2018.
I tried to focus my attention on reading.
I'm going to be too busy.
Sleep helps your body maintain and repair its cells, tissues, and blood vessels. Quality sleep can also lower your risk of obesity, diabetes, and stroke.
Don't change your mind.
It's not too late.
I really can't do that.
My goal was to reduce stress, but I got just the opposite.
We just want to take Joojo home.
Which one of these two is the good one?
Australia is an amazing country.
She has nothing in common with him.
Japan depends on Arab countries for oil.
I worked in the music industry and in accounting. Charlotte was a chiropractic assistant, and she also worked in banking.
You survived.
Bananas are delicious.
Those thoughts might seem valid. Still, there are benefits to adopting a positive outlook.
He shot an arrow at the deer.
Our guests are in a hurry.
I will pay for it by check.
Did you have a good time last night?
I can't tell Joojo and his younger brother apart.
I was afraid. I thought to myself, ‘What if he hunts me down and kills me or my parents?
Joojo died on October 20, 2013.
He has powerful arms.
Joojo started coughing.
Joojo asked Aku to tell him about the house she had lived in when she was a child.
I thought you jury-rigged something.
I also hated a rival political party that was vying for control of my district. To become a better fighter, I learned martial arts, and then I beat up anyone who upset me
Something changed.
I have to take my medicine every six hours.
Granted, your past experiences may tell you that you should be cautious, but do those experiences really justify your concluding that these two young men are a danger?
So strive to nurture positive thoughts and feelings about your spouse.
I was considered successful in all these endeavors.
You already know that, right?
I want you in my office.
There is a full moon tonight.
The package was wrapped in thick paper.
Our company has annual sales of a thousand million yen.
Do you want a little cake?
He is getting along with his employees.
She came to my defence when I was accused of plagiarism.
I'm planning to leave for Europe next week.
You can choose one of them.
Won't you come and see me next week?
Vegetables grow in soil that may have been treated with manure, so wash these items carefully before preparing them.
When you try to converse, he either gives clipped responses or ignites an argument that turns your home ground into a battleground.
Where's the dining car?
Joojo showed Efua how to use the washing machine.
Can you really make the changes needed to deal successfully with burnout? Yes, you can.
I have a jealous husband.
I offered to help her with her homework.
The company laid off five people.
Then, after you have brainstormed a few options, you could say: “Those are a few possibilities. Think them over for a day or two, and then we can get together again to talk about which solution you prefer and why.
Joojo tripled his investment in six months.
The man lit a cigarette with a lighter.
I'm content with my salary.
He kissed his daughter on the forehead.
They had a number of luxury cars and took several expensive vacations each year.
I expected better from you.
Nobody wants to work with you.
Joojo is downstairs.
Will you teach me French?
Have you ever been to Africa?
Who's in charge?
I have no appetite.
Often, the host will accompany the guest partway down the road and continue conversing with him.
I don't know why they are fighting.
Joojo went to Paris to study French.
You might benefit from doing the following whenever it is possible and practical: Eat smaller portions than usual.
Try explaining that to Joojo.
Joojo filled the bucket with water.
You look like you've just seen a ghost.
Today most New Zealanders acknowledge traditions of both Anglo-Saxon and Polynesian origin. Almost 90 percent of the population are city dwellers. The city of Wellington has the distinction of being the southernmost capital in the world.
Why do you have so many cats?
After handling garbage.
Can you stay for a while?
First of all, we have to finish the homework.
He views himself as superior and judges people who are different from him as being inferior.
Efua wants to become a vet because she loves animals.
So, what can you do if you realize that you have a problem getting enough sleep?
Things are not that simple.
I contacted my parents.
I later married a woman whose home country and race were different from mine, and I have found much joy in learning about different kinds of foods and forms of music that were new to me.
If you do not stay physically active, you are more likely to: Suffer from heart disease, Suffer from type 2 diabetes, Develop high blood pressure, Develop high cholesterol, Suffer a stroke.
We will take a quick break.
It's time to go to school.
This cake tastes like it has cheese in it.
Read the note at the bottom of the page.
Modern-day society encourages egotism rather than altruism. So it means a lot when someone takes a sincere interest in you without necessarily expecting anything in return
Joojo is an intriguing guy.
Americans have lost their trust in Toyota.
He was tired then.
Until 1948 the flightless takahe was thought to be extinct
Juliza’s childhood was anything but happy. Her father was an alcoholic, and her family was poor.
I will stop you.
Culture is like jam, the less you have, the more you spread it.
Joojo was fired on Monday.
Joojo was the last person I expected to see here.
I don't think it's strange at all.
Do I have genuine friendships with people I care about and who care about me?
Joojo! What are you doing?
I'm in no hurry.
Will you please lend me a stapler?
We heard the explosion and saw the house burst into flames.
But they end up comparing themselves with those people and get discouraged.
I still have a lot of work to do.
The news shocked the public.
I don't want you to kill Joojo.
Joojo could have paid for Efua's ticket if he'd known she didn't have enough money.
There's something Joojo hasn't told Aku.
An unbalanced approach to money can eventually damage your health and your relationships with others. Remember, there is more to life than money.
Don't tell me you've never been in love.
Spanish people are friendly and outgoing. Most profess to be Roman Catholic, but relatively few actually attend Mass.
I eat fish every week.
He thought that it was like a bird cage.
All the students began talking at once.
ike most people, I deal with anxiety, but when I am out in nature, I feel re-centered and energized—a rare thing in this busy world.
Set an appropriate time to discuss the problem
Do research or consult your doctor to learn about the benefits of the various substances found in foods.
As a result, the affection you once had has been replaced by resentment.
Where is the Red Cross?
I can get you a glass of water if you like.
If this is your problem, use the information on food packaging to keep your sodium intake low.
Envy can poison a person’s capacity to enjoy the good things in life
I thought you said 2:30.
I've always played with my brother.
Joojo can fix the heater.
I must leave tomorrow morning.
I don't think you should call Joojo.
They want this.
The hotel was expensive, but the daily rate included breakfast.
Help my child deal with feelings of exclusion
I don't want to be your enemy.
I just came from there.
He saw the boy jump over the fence and run away.
I think Joojo and Efua are dating.
I'm going to America tomorrow.
How often does Joojo play hockey?
I appreciate how you feel.
We celebrated all night.
You can visit me tomorrow.
They stayed friends.
I was the first to begin speaking.
Rather, a person with humility takes genuine interest in others and is willing to learn from them.
I've made a list of people I need to talk to.
Regardless of the cause, hurtful speech can be a predictor of divorce as well as a number of health problems.
I think we both know how Joojo feels.
Joojo seldom drinks coffee.
How can you tell whether an activity is moderate or vigorous?
Joojo ended in second place.
Have you been told when you are expected to be here?
Where would you like to go first?
I lent my pencil to him.
Is there a post office around here?
Others have hesitated to leave because they fear that their friends and relatives would turn against them, refusing to believe that the situation at home was so severe.
It is difficult for foreigners to get used to Japanese food.
You don't need to reinvent the wheel.
Good hygiene can also prevent the spread of more serious conditions, such as pneumonia and diarrheal diseases, which every year cause the death of over two million children under the age of five.
The Congress had no money.
Plus, my three older brothers would tease me mercilessly. They somehow thought that my whole ordeal of getting periods was funny.
Brittney makes a concerted effort to be kind to people and to do things for others, whether they seem appreciative or not. She lives by the Golden Rule—to treat others as she would like to be treated.
No one group has a monopoly on all good qualities and abilities.
Anticipate risks such as the threat of job loss, and be prepared to respond.
Clearly, many people can distinguish between false success and true success​—at least when they are asked.
Hello, is anybody there?
I've written a lot of stories.
I'll ask Joojo.
If you see a suspicious person, please inform the police.
Languages spoken: English and French, along with some 270 other African languages and dialects
The sister of your father or mother is your aunt.
Negative emotions can cloud clear thinking, so try to stay calm.
Frank is boiling with rage. Once again, he will take out his anger in typical fashion—which for him means hitting his wife in the face, kicking her, pulling her hair, or repeatedly knocking her head against the wall.
It's dirt-cheap.
Can you see the difference?
I met him once when I was a student.
I think I've fallen in love with you.
Joojo cannot drive a car.
I have never been to America.
I do all the work.
But now he was working late nights as well as weekends, sometimes up to 80 hours a week.
I've received it too.
I want to talk with my lawyer.
If possible, think of a specific circumstance in which your mate felt that your speech was hurtful.
I think it might rain today, but I could be wrong.
Joojo cried for an hour.
Fasten your seat belt, please.
Something remarkable happened.
We may also get stress relief by treating ourselves kindly. For example, we should not make harsh or unrealistic demands on ourselves. Nor should we belittle or malign ourselves.
I hope I don't regret doing this.
To succeed in having healthy eating habits takes forethought.
Joojo is the type of person who likes to complain.
I don't know anything about anything.
So make time for sufficient rest and balanced recreation.
I got homesick.
Joojo thinks that's crazy.
I admit it. I was wrong.
Children play in this park every day.
Don't point your finger at me.
I know that you won't be able to do that without some help.
My favorite form of exercise is playing sports—basketball in particular.
I remember a time when we could tell each other anything.
You'll never regret this.
Excess body fat can be a major factor in type 2 diabetes.
It's part of the job.
Visitors are greeted and welcomed inside the home, where they are served water and food.
He has green eyes.
The boy has a watch in his hand.
I'm baffled.
WHO wants to be sick? At the very least, an illness is an inconvenience and an expense.
You're patronizing.
I get up at six almost every day.
It's very hard getting a taxi in this city.
Lottery tickets are a waste of money. "Not if you win."
I'll go back to Boston.
I want to go to the bathroom.
It seemed as if she was going to faint.
It'd be better if you would come with me.
Prohibit devices in my child’s bedroom overnight
Some call exercise a natural antidepressant.
I could swim well when I was a boy.
He won't live more than one day.
Well has it been said that “Prevention is better than cure.” Some illnesses cannot be avoided.
Everything was on sale.
I wanted to build our business to a point where life was more comfortable and I could make money while working less.
We have found that it is good to view your mate as being more important than yourself and others
He also called on the youth to refrain from any untoward action that would further disturb the peace in the Tamale metropolis.
What steps can you take to protect yourself, even in the immediate aftermath of a disaster, from this and other types of water contamination?
I want to have a little chat with you about Joojo.
He apologized profusely and promised he would never do it again. In the years to come, I would hear those words many times.
What time does the train get in?
Set as a goal something more rewarding than wealth and possessions.
You're a good doctor.
My palms were sweaty.
Don't listen to Joojo. He doesn't know what he's talking about.
Let's begin, then.
To teach resilience, help your child work out a strategy that will help him to improve.
I built a one-man business and intentionally kept it small.
Despite embracing [the country’s] diversity and instituting numerous legal and policy provisions to protect the rights of diverse communities, racism has continued to be a serious human rights challenge.
Did you see her face?
When Frank complained about the noise, Jerry took offense at his manner. They argued. After that, they avoided each other.
He's a friend from work.
How long are you going to keep whimpering about that? You can't change the past.
Keep your promises.
You have no choice, it seems, but to endure a loveless marriage. You resent your spouse for that too.
Just let me go.
I don't think she'll be happy living with her mother-in-law.
She talked as she walked.
They left at 5 o'clock, so they ought to be home by 6.
I must've lost some weight.
It pains me to have to say this, but it's the truth.
Are you alone?
Let's not ruin this.
Joojo wanted to do something nice for Aku.
Others give up entirely. However, they need to understand the following facts:
That's a really great idea.
Instead of salt, use herbs and spices to flavor your meals.
That's quite remarkable.
They're building a new square.
I've made a mistake.
He bored us with his long stories.
Joojo has a sister named Aku.
I want to try something else.
I waited up for him until ten o'clock.
This inclusive, impartial view of friendship can add variety to your life, as well as endear you to others.
I don't know what you think.
Taking an interest in people of all ages, cultural backgrounds, and nationalities can truly enrich our lives.
Where do I get the bus?
Suppressed grief can also lead to the abuse of alcohol or drugs, all done in an effort to numb the pain.
To the south, only some nine miles (14 km) of water separates mainland Spain from the African continent.
Please do it this way.
If you answered “deflate me” and “gleeful,” you may be nurturing envy.
Does your father get home early?
Have I explained to my child the reasons why I try to handle problems calmly?
This is the house where my father was born and brought up.
People who are truly successful endeavor to keep their work, health, and family life in proper balance.
Our train left Osaka at 8:00, arriving in Tokyo by 11:00.
Your heart beats faster and harder to distribute blood throughout your body.
I can't be happy here.
I have to wake Joojo up.
In fact, some experts warn that the type of light that comes from a phone, a TV, or a tablet can make it harder for you to get to sleep.
The rumor isn't true.
Sharks are good swimmers.
I walk every day.
Spain produces more olive oil than any other country in the world.
I found that his house was on fire.
You cannot forget the bad things your spouse has said or done; the harsh words and thoughtless acts are indelibly etched in your memory.
I don't like English.
How about going for a drive?
In some lands, young people are spending less time being physically active, and it is putting their health at risk.
Is technology your master or your servant?
It is clear that he is guilty.
A cure must do more than address symptoms; it must correct underlying causes
Joojo had drunk too much coffee so he couldn't sleep.
If that is unrealistic, look for ways to reduce their impact, perhaps by managing your tasks or time more efficiently.
Joojo carried Efua on his shoulders.
Don't confuse comets and asteroids.
To reduce stress and gain time for what you truly value, you may consider working fewer hours, you may be able to persuade your employer to reduce your current job demands, or you may determine that you need to change jobs.
They soon became friends.
You're nuts!
She said that her husband hit her, but in fact it was the other way around.
You're being watched.
Let me think for a while.
In an effort to ease traffic congestion, major cities are limiting new vehicle registrations.
It doesn't seem that big.
Researchers struggle to define prejudice. Some say it is “a negative attitude or feeling toward an individual based solely on that individual’s membership in a certain group.”
Yes, from my childhood on. I grew up in a violent atmosphere. My father regularly beat my mother in front of me and my siblings.
I can ride a horse, too.
Always store treated water in clean, covered containers to protect it from possible recontamination.
Joojo wanted Araba to accept his gift.
You've bought more stamps than needed.
I'll leave Tokyo for Osaka tonight.
Joojo didn't give me a chance to talk to him.
Can I use your phone?
That includes having the resilience to deal with occasional setbacks.
I had no idea how to handle things. The stress was overwhelming.
Joojo broke the window on purpose.
There is a gold coin.
It will get warmer soon.
The Maori language is spoken in New Zealand.
Pessimism will sap you of the strength you need to improve your situation or to help you deal with it.
Nesrim is my only sibling. We always got along, so I never thought that our relationship could be damaged over money.
I need at least eight hours of sleep each night. So if I have to be up earlier than usual, I calculate backwards to see what time I need to go to bed.
For example, if your son typically loses his temper when he gets upset, others may tend to avoid him.
The stadium was overflowing with people.
Joojo ate dinner about one hour ago.
I want a suit made of this material.
When we disagree, my mom takes offense at everything I say,” says a teen named Kari.
Joojo said that he planned to stick around school all day.
Prices depend on supply and demand.
Joojo met Aku a couple of years ago.
Among the possible reasons given are the economic crisis, the cost of fuel, and the maintenance costs for cars.
Maybe he will be a good teacher.
I recently lost 30 pounds, and through this journey I never starved myself, cut out a food group, or beat myself up for eating a dessert.
I will try it again.
“The one in which they tell their parents what they want to hear and the one in which they do as they please once they are out of their parents’ sight.
The tug-of-war that may result can create considerable turmoil for parents and teens.
Rub your hands together to make a lather, not forgetting to clean your nails, your thumbs, the backs of your hands, and between your fingers.
And that is good news. Why? Because unlike your circumstances or your genes—over which you have little or no control—you can control your attitude.
That book is theirs.
I can swim as well as you.
I like short hair.
Did Joojo talk to you about his plans for next weekend?
No doubt she will come soon.
I'm still here.
Do you have a credit card?
This year I'm living at my grandparents'.
I didn't hear you.
Why do you want to know what I'm thinking?
I like studying English.
Joojo talked Efua into buying a new computer.
Can you help?
I told you guys to go home. Why are you still here?
Which of the following do you think has the biggest effect on your happiness?
His mother is an English teacher.
Someone pushed me inside.
I'm also learning French.
The extra room proved very useful when we had visitors.
Marlay’s task that he had assigned himself was to roam about each day, pick dresses of the suburb’s inhabitants, and wear them all.
I wasn't happy.
The roof of my house is red.
So, if you asked me why Marlay was skinny and yet appeared big whenever they met him, that’s just the answer.
Every neighborhood is different.
When you and your spouse argue, you often bring up the past, rehashing a list of old grievances that should have been settled long ago.
Kids in my school were mean to anyone who stood out as different.”
How could something so disliked be at the same time so widespread? Evidently, many who disapprove of prejudice fail to recognize it in themselves.
Joojo asked me about Araba.
Joojo saw a ghost.
Be reasonable about what you expect of yourself.
Some people might doubt that. They would say, ‘My spouse made me resentful.’
Despite the prevalence of prejudice, however, most people are quick to condemn it. This is truly a paradox.
My father is to visit Korea next week.
Even the cleverest students can make silly mistakes.
We simply do not have the ability or the moral authority to rule over our fellow humans. Where, then, can we turn for help?
I think we should wait another half an hour.
I'm not being paid enough.
Reading the packaging will help you to select whole-grain foods when buying bread, cereals, pasta, or rice.
The water is clean.
If water does not come from a safe source or is not stored correctly, it can cause parasite infestation, as well as cholera, life-threatening diarrhea, typhoid, hepatitis, and other infections.
Listen to what your friend has to say, and respect his opinions. Whenever possible, commend and encourage him.
Usually, there is nothing wrong with walking away from a heated argument until the discussion can be handled more calmly.
If I knew his address, I would write to him.
Joojo saw Efua coming.
Everyone fell asleep.
It's time for you to buy a new car.
I got lost.
She gave him the car.
Joojo eventually figured out how to install a free database application on his computer.
When money became an issue, he was no longer the amiable Thomas I knew.”
Tell me why you came back.
Set a time limit for daily usage
It happened that we were on the same train.
Joojo is at the top of his class.
Who do you work for?
Who's on duty today?
Dalits (“untouchables”) suffer from endemic discrimination, especially in the economic, social, and cultural spheres.
Every year, 1 out of every 6 Americans falls sick from food poisoning.
I spilled some fruit juice on my new shirt.
He has a strong will.
The enemy destroyed many of our ships.
Joojo lied about where he'd been last night.
Rather than overreact, say something that “mirrors” your teen’s feelings.
Joojo told Aku to practice her tuba somewhere else.
According to a recent Oxfam International report, the eight richest people own the same amount of wealth as the poorer half of humanity.
For a week, keep track of how you use your time. Then look for ways to make better use of it. The more you are in control, the less pressured you will feel.
Joojo changed his mind after thinking over the matter for a long time.
I play squash.
He stopped looking for the pearl.
Obtaining sufficient clean water for one’s family is a regular chore in some countries.
He said he was going to take a risk.
Good friends are like stars. You don't always see them, but you know they are always there.
Joojo shot Efua with a crossbow.
The plane took off at exactly nine o'clock.
Money problems have also been a factor in suicide.
he scars of a past offense can take a long time to heal. A spouse might say ‘I forgive you’ but still harbor resentment for what happened​—perhaps craving to get even.
Please give me a cup of water.
Acknowledge that others are strong in areas where you are weak
So when he faces a dilemma, do not do his “exercising” for him. As you discuss the matter, give him a chance to come up with some solutions of his own.
We praised them when they didn’t allow difficulty to get them out of sorts or when they kept their cool and showed self-control.
I've never been injured playing rugby.
Fire!
Many people wrongly conclude that everyone who has a disability is sad or bitter.
Kind, compassionate words from others can lift your spirits.
I think we can win today's game.
This classroom is very large.
We gather here once a week.
Can I park my car here?
The race was fixed.
Researchers cite money problems as a common factor in marital strife resulting in divorce.
I've seen them before.
Dolphins are curious.
You are too young to be in love.
I'll show you where.
Why not have dinner with us?
You don't look angry.
Whatever you decide to do, you will likely need to adjust your financial situation and make changes in your lifestyle.
She announced her intention to retire.
He has to take two science classes.
Can't you do anything to stop it?
She learned to ride a bicycle last year.
We cannot tell a good person from a bad one by looks alone.
The whole neighborhood mourned his death.
For some girls, exercise reduces anxiety.
I've been very lucky today.
He decided to come.
I saw her somewhere two years ago.
Where did you eat last night?
Be polite to your parents.
Scapegoated abroad and the victims of prejudice at home, eastern Europe’s Roma are the problem no politician wants to solve.
The researchers concluded that looking at the pictures and updates of others can leave a person with “a feeling of not having done anything meaningful.
Are you aware that Okinawa is closer to China than to Honshu?
I'd just like to know what's going on here.
Joojo was accused of stealing money from the cash register.
Protect your source of income by being industrious and dependable at your job. Employers appreciate diligence.
Does it bother you if I smoke?
Words could not describe it.
He became a medical doctor in a town in northern Alaska, U.S.A., where his physical appearance was similar to that of many of his patients.
Joojo didn't know it was already after 2:30.
HAVE you felt like that? And when you attained your goal or acquired the desired item, did your happiness last? Or did it begin to fade?
Joojo doesn't feel like studying.
With humility consider others superior to you, as you look out not only for your own interests, but also for the interests of others.
Joojo said he saw the invisible man today.
Joojo was every inch a gentleman.
I'm so full.
I like castles.
She told a white lie out of necessity.
Yes, we were not created to govern ourselves.
Could you write that down, please?
I have eight brothers.
I'm sorry, my mother's not at home.
By the 16th century, Islam gained a foothold in Indonesian culture.
True friendship involves commitment. In other words, a good friend feels a responsibility toward you, and he really cares about you.
By doing so, you will show that you have a balanced view of money.
I said to myself: ‘What have I done? If I don’t make a change, I’m dead.’” Anil was rapidly burning out.
Don't put the table so close to the wall.
Why did you decide to buy this house?
The written papers of this year’s West Africa Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) for the second batch of final-year free senior high school students began smoothly throughout the country yesterday.
In fact, I hardly had to work because I had others working for me.
Did you do that just to annoy me?
I couldn't understand anything that he said.
Dami was six years old when an aneurysm claimed the life of her dad.
Fish is good for you.
She patted me on the shoulder.
It is a step in the right direction.
Our broken economies,” said Oxfam, “are funnelling wealth to a rich elite at the expense of the poorest in society, the majority of whom are women.
Joojo wondered how many times Aku had been in trouble with the law.
What's your favorite season of the year?
If a person has not had a chance to acquire his target language by the time he's an adult, he's unlikely to be able to reach native speaker level in that language.
Maybe I shouldn't have done that.
Lenin ordered them to rebel.
That's ridiculous!
Of course, your child may not be old enough to experience the loss of a job or a financial reversal.
Nobody will say it so bluntly, but that is the gist of it.
Avoid making broad statements, such as “Your family always puts me down” or “Your mother never likes what I do”
My friend recommended that I shouldn't buy an iPad yet, but to wait until I see what Apple's competitors come out with.
Say it clearly in a loud voice.
In the year 2012, there will be flying cars everywhere.
How often does a phone call, text, or notification interrupt an in-person conversation I am having with a friend?
Any such hope was shattered when he provided medical assistance to a 25-year-old woman.
Joojo is naked from the waist up.
Joojo spends all his time on the computer.
Can we afford to give our child a device with Internet access?
You're too old for me.
Where is that?
How can you help your children resist the temptation to view or send sexually explicit images online?
I'd appreciate that.
Joojo believes that there is a time and a place for everything.
I thought Joojo would say hello to Efua.
I need to find something to open this bottle with.
I hate French.
Joojo spent all day looking around antique shops.
Of the children who fell victim to crimes in which social networking sites played a role, 63 percent had received no warning from their parents regarding the potential dangers.
Shut up and pay attention.
We don't have sugar.
Like a malignant growth, envy can take over one’s life and destroy happiness. How might envy take root? How can we recognize this trait? And how can we combat it?
That notion​—which is all too often spoon-fed to children from an early age—​will likely lead to disappointment.
Do you want to continue living like this?
It takes 165 years for Neptune to orbit around the sun.
Is this the right bus for Boston?
One plane after another took off.
Joojo is going to college now.
Cut back on the time spent scrolling through social media
Help me!
Clearly, grieving can be a complex process. How can you get relief and be helped to move forward?
Sometimes humility is misjudged as a weakness.
He has a cat and two dogs.
I'd like a glass of beer.
Approximately one thousand tons of flour are exported every year.
He insulted our team.
If you’re hungry, have something to eat.
If a guy’s muscles outweigh his intelligence, that’s the opposite of attractive,” says a young woman named Julia.
When I was young, I tried to read as many books as I could.
Look for opportunities to be self-sacrificing. For example, can you prepare a meal for a sick neighbor? Do you know elderly ones who need help with tasks around the home?
Luxembourg is a small country.
At the very least, you can learn from the experience and resolve to do better next time.
If you have children, give them (according to their age and ability) the opportunity to work through their problems.
Joojo complained that his back hurt.
He didn't go to class.
Where is the telephone book?
We often have higher expectations of others than we have of ourselves.
The fact is, real success is within the grasp of anyone​—but it requires effort.
They have nothing to eat.
Some would choose “circumstances,” perhaps saying, “I would be happy if only I had more money, if only I had a great marriage, if only I had better health.
I've written down all the numbers up to thirty-one.
Joojo convinced Efua that she was wrong.
I doubt Joojo knows Araba.
The Cold War began after the Second World War.
I have something to give you.
Self-control is not just a matter of holding back from doing wrong; it includes doing what is necessary, even when this is not particularly exciting or fun.
There is no hope.
I hope we can be good friends.
Joojo was the first one to ask a question.
One study suggests that when paying with a credit card, people are prone to spend more. So if you have a credit card, use it with restraint.
Make a practical schedule, and stick to it.
Ellen gets even better grades than Janet and is an honor-roll student​—but she cheats on tests and has little real interest in her education.
If they don’t give me more freedom by the time I turn 18, I’m moving out!
The passing car splashed muddy water on me.
Balanced exercise will help you become stronger, fitter, and more likely to project self-confidence.
Joojo tried to stay calm.
I have good eyesight.
To err is human.
Is that true?
Don't ask for money.
Joojo will deny everything.
That was fun.
Ensure that any vessel used to take water from your stored supply, such as a ladle, is clean.
Children who have greater self-control can resist temptation, even if the temptation promises short-term rewards.
He's done this before.
Who is going to look after our dog?
He arrived half an hour late, so everyone was angry with him.
Write down all your expenses, and put them in categories. Then allocate funds for each expense.
Joojo jumped over the fence.
Most [cultural] groups feel​—to varying degrees of intensity​—that their way of life, their foods, dress, habits, beliefs, values, and so forth, are superior to those of other groups.
I stand corrected.
There was not a tree in sight.
Is Joojo faster than Aku?
Joojo has been out of town for the last three months.
She used to pray before going to bed.
I put so much time and effort into this project, and I still didn’t get it right! I’ll never succeed at this job. No matter how hard I work, it’s never good enough. Why do I even try?
Do people in Boston drink tap water?
Joojo is almost ready.
We went to see turtles on the beach.
What adjustments could I make so that my use of technology does not prevent me from making true friends?
Before long I was making many healthy swaps each day!
She's still dependent on her parents.
His theory is based on careful research.
Joojo has a strange way of talking.
How do I feel after a period of browsing through social media?
He had never seen such a bad boy.
I’m determined not to return to my unhealthy habits. Diabetes is definitely not to be taken lightly!
But there is nothing normal about domestic violence. That is why most people are appalled when they learn that a man has battered his wife.
Let's give them a minute.
Let's get a picture of us together.
Joojo's French is almost perfect.
I am not alone in this opinion.
But when I moved to a large city at the age of 19 to work in a factory, I found myself working with and living near people of many different races, backgrounds, and cultures.
Correction is vital for learning.​
FRANK and Jerry faced a common problem. When two people have a difference, both often go away angry, perhaps blaming each other.
Cultivate interests and friendships apart from your work, and avoid defining yourself by the type and amount of work that you do.
What did you eat for lunch?
Still, you can help him cope with other adversities​—for example, the loss of a friendship or the death of a family member.
It takes planning to eat healthier, and oftentimes healthy food has to be prepared at home.
He tried hard, but failed.
Which is the route to Paris?
The cause of the accident is unknown.
What does Joojo have to say?
I could hear an owl hooting in the distance.
With diverse and spectacular scenic beauty, it is no surprise that, despite its relative isolation, New Zealand attracts up to three million tourists yearly.
As I got to know my workmates and made friends, I saw firsthand that people’s skin color, mother tongue, and nationality told me absolutely nothing about how hard they worked, how trustworthy they were, or what their innermost feelings were.
Simply telling a child that he or she is “awesome” does not encourage humility. Be specific.
She told him a joke, but he didn't think it was funny.
Everybody wants to live in comfort.
He helped me move.
Bicycles, on the other hand, are relatively inexpensive to maintain, easy to use, and convenient.
ON December 25, 2010, a 42-year-old woman in Britain posted a suicide note on a well-known social networking site.
A balanced diet includes all food groups.
Try to lower or eliminate debt. Discuss the need for change with your family members, and seek their support.
I am really glad to hear that you want to live in Scotland.
You should be home.
It looks as if it's going to rain.
In what areas is this person more capable than I am?
About thirty villagers were injured.
This one has a lot of advantages over that one.
Is that a new car?
For the sake of their health, some people learn to say no to certain foods; you can do the same with negative attitudes
It is up to you and your mate to agree on what boundaries you will set for them and then lovingly let them know.
I bought a book about animals.
It's a classic.
I'm giving you a second chance.
The dog looks hungry.
I was very tired so I went to bed early.
Carefully consider your priorities.
I don't know whether you are telling the truth or not.
If a sibling, talented classmate, or fellow worker fails in some way, am I sad or gleeful?’
How long would it take to swim across the river?
IT MIGHT surprise you to learn that both of those scenarios are about the same couple.
Climate: Hot and dry in the north, humid in the coastal region
Cal owns a similar business, and he makes far more money than Alex.
Nobody reads long messages.
Before you tell your daughter that, however, consider some reasons why life might seem overwhelming to a young teenage girl.
Get adequate rest, sufficient exercise, and proper nutrition. If you do not feel like eating, have a number of healthful snacks throughout the day instead of full meals—at least until your appetite returns to normal.
Steel production will increase 2% this month from last month.
Unhealthy youths often become unhealthy adults, so it’s good for you to develop healthy eating habits now.
But that shouldn’t be all a person’s diet consists of. Moderation is always a good rule to follow.
I was able to help her.
If you develop a strong work ethic, you will likely enjoy your work more.
She admitted that she was wrong.
Discuss proper online conduct and manners with my child
I always tried to be strict with them and not to smile.
She will pay for everything.
She's the most beautiful woman in the world.
Who's your favorite?
Avoid friendships with people who attach too much importance to money and possessions. Instead, seek association with people who place greater value on high moral principles than on possessions.
Even if by some miracle we could cure mankind’s hurtful traits, we would still be unable to make the world safe and secure for all. The reason? Our human limitations.
As a child, he talked to you about everything. As a teenager, he tells you nothing.
The man terrified the little children.
The book Indistractable notes that giving children a smartphone or other device before they have the skills to use it properly is “just as irresponsible as letting them jump headfirst into a pool without knowing how to swim.
I thought I had until 2:30.
He soon accustomed himself to cold weather.
I'm not opening the door for Joojo.
I can't help making fun of him.
Stop! There's a deer on the road.
Aku is very gentle with her baby sister.
A lot of the things that make exercise seem hard aren’t that bad if I don’t think about them.
Remember, you likely cannot buy everything you want. Thus, spend your money wisely.
He has always been at the head of the class.
You shouldn't have gone there.
Go get changed.
It's an embarrassing question.
If after applying these suggestions you still suffer from insomnia or other sleep disorders—such as excessive daytime sleepiness or gasping for breath while sleeping—you may want to consult a qualified health-care professional.
Do I tend to make friends with people who constantly talk about money and the things they own?
Joojo claimed to be the owner of the land.
I'll go take a look.
A World Bank Africa Vice President, Hafez Ghanem will arrive in Ghana on Sunday, March 24, 2019 as part of a three-day mission to the country.
Then, when a conflict arises, they use a past event as a trump card to gain the upper hand.
We have the opposite problem.
Talk things over with an understanding person. A confidant may help you to see things differently or even to see a solution you overlooked. And just unburdening yourself can make you feel better.
I don't know where Joojo has gone.
Think ahead. Make your own meals instead of relying on whatever is available when you are outside the home.
Include fruits and vegetables in your diet, and vary what you eat.
Are humans taking a similar approach to the world’s ills?
Remember, your teenager is watching your example and learning from it​—for better or for worse.
The lawyer believed in his client's innocence.
Consider this: Do people in general like to have their equals tell them how to live or which moral values to live by?
Joojo is extremely busy now.
It’s hard to be the first person to leave a gathering because you know you have to get up early the next morning. But being modest is part of becoming a mature person.
Do I talk about my marital problems with this person?
Do I create opportunities to be with him or her?
Do I hide the relationship from my spouse?
If my spouse were present, would I be embarrassed?
Would my spouse feel suspicious or betrayed if he or she overheard our conversations?
IT SEEMS so ironic: Even when people face the threat of losing their job, their home, and even their pension, many of them are still obsessed with getting anything and everything that money can buy.
Such people are easy targets for advertisers, whose seductive marketing campaigns tell us that we must have a bigger home, a better car, and brand-name clothes.
No cash? No problem—buy on credit! For many, the goal is to look well-off even if they are deep in debt.
Of course, sooner or later reality sets in. “Buying flashy consumer goods on credit in order to look and feel like a winner is similar to hitting the crack pipe in order to improve your mood,” says the book The Narcissism Epidemic. “Both are initially cheap and work really well—but only for a very short period of time. In the long term both leave you penniless and depressed.
The fact is, an obsession with possessions distracts us from the very things that matter most in life—the things that money cannot buy.
Brianne, a teenager in the United States, feels that her father places too much importance on his job and the money it provides.
We have everything we need and more,” she says, “but my dad is never home because he is always traveling.
I know it’s because of his work, but I think he has a responsibility to his family too!”
What regrets might Brianne’s father experience later in life?
By putting too much emphasis on material things, how is he affecting his relationship with his daughter?
What does his family need from him more than money?
Money cannot buy family unity.
That only comes from spending time with your family and giving them adequate love and attention.
My mom is always telling me that I need to marry a man with a lot of money and learn a trade so that I can have a good job to fall back on for the rest of my life,” says 17-year-old Sarah.
The only thing that seems to be on her mind is where her next paycheck is coming from.
When contemplating the future, what legitimate concerns do you have?
A farmer said to his wife, “You are lazy. You work slowly and lethargically. You waste your time." 
President Akufo-Addo on Monday, called on citizens to make payment of taxes a regular predictable part of their lives as Ghanaians.
ITALY is a country of contrasts—from sprawling beaches to rugged mountain ranges; from torrid summers in the south to frigid winters in the north.
It is also a volcanic country, but only a few volcanoes—such as Stromboli and Mount Etna—are active.
Italy is one of the most densely populated countries in Europe.
It has been traversed by many peoples, including Arabs, Byzantines, Greeks, Normans, and Phoenicians.
The country is rich in historical and artistic treasures.
Ancient Greek and Roman ruins or Baroque and Renaissance architecture stand proudly in many of Italy’s towns and cities.
Paintings, marble statues, and fountains are a credit to artists such as Bernini, Michelangelo, and Raphael.
Food plays a central role in daily life, and many customs revolve around local cuisine.
Tourists take gondola rides through the many canals in Venice
Pasta is often served as a first course, followed by meat or fish with vegetables.
Olive oil is used copiously, as it is produced there on a large scale. Pizza and risotto are well-known Italian dishes.
Italians are known for being warm, hospitable, and gregarious.
Conversation is considered an art form, so it is common to see people chatting in public squares or enjoying animated conversation while strolling along a path.
Most of Italy’s population profess to be Roman Catholic, but few regularly attend church.
The influence of the church is said to have weakened in recent decades, as public opinion has ignored long-held policies on abortion and divorce.
Although Vatican City is located in Rome, it has been an independent country since 1929 and is thus thought of as foreign soil by citizens of Italy.
The rugged Dolomites, a mountain range in northeastern Italy
Mediterranean in the south, with mild winters and long warm summers; alpine in the north, with cold winters
Only 38 percent of children below the age of 5 have a birth certificate,” says a report on sub-Saharan Africa by UNICEF.
Yet, in some areas of that part of the world, “birth registration is essential for children to access health care and education, as well as for orphans to inherit from their parents,” stated Elke Wisch, the UNICEF deputy regional director for eastern and southern Africa.
According to one survey, the most common fear of Italian adolescents is cyberbullying.
Among 12- to 17-year-olds, 72 percent say they dread it.
They make up a higher percentage than those who fear drugs (55 percent), being molested by an adult (44 percent), or contracting a sexually transmitted disease (24 percent).
As reported in The Japan Times, young Japanese adults increasingly pass up promotions in the workplace.
Forty percent deplore the lack of ethics and the prevalence of dishonest practices.
Many employees feel unable to discuss opinions or talk freely with superiors.
Whereas older generations stuck with their employers, 60 percent of young employees now simply hold on to their job while waiting for something better to turn up.
From 1980 to 2010, nearly 800,000 people were killed by firearms in Brazil.
Over 450,000 victims were between 15 and 29 years of age.
A study of more recent crimes shows that killings are often the result of domestic quarrels, conflicts with neighbors, jealousy, or arguments between drivers.
When does legitimate concern cross the line and become inordinate worry?
How might Sarah’s mom provide a more balanced approach to financial security?
There is more to a secure future than stockpiling money.
After all, money can be stolen—and it cannot cure disease or prevent death.
My parents raised me to live simply,” says 24-year-old Tanya. “My twin sister and I were happy growing up, even though much of the time we had only enough to get by.
Why might it be difficult to be content with basic necessities?
When it comes to attitudes toward money, what example do you set for your family?
There is more to life than money and the things it can buy.
On average,” says The Narcissism Epidemic, “materialistic people are less happy and more depressed.
Even people who simply aspire to have more money suffer from poor mental health; they also report more physical health problems such as sore throats, backaches, and headaches and were more likely to drink too much alcohol and use illegal drugs.
Striving for financial success, apparently, makes people miserable.”
