Prosecution said during the arrest, six pump action guns and cash of GHC1,292,180, sandy substances suspected to be gold dust, a yellow bar suspected to be a gold bar, and liquid substances suspected to be mercury, were found.
A suspected armed robber in handcuff has escaped from Police custody at Kyebi in the Eastern region.
Starr News has gathered from a reliable source in Kyebi that the suspect Ebenezer Gyimah alias Peace was arrested by a team of Anti Armed Robbery squad and Personnel from CID Headquarters on June 24,2021 for his alleged involvement in many robberies in both Abuakwa North and South Municipalities.
The suspect was escorted to the Kyebi Zongo for a search while in handcuff but managed to escape.
A day later, the Kyebi Police also arrested another suspected robber identified as
Musa Kamara ,26, who was on Police wanted list at his hideout in Kibi Zongo on June 25,2021.
He also attempted to escape but was shot in the left knee and over-powered by Police.
The victim was rushed to the Kyebi government hospital where he is on admission under police guard.
The two suspects are reported to be part of notorious robbery gang terrorising residents in Kibi, Akyem Tafo, Osiem, Anyinasin and its environs.
At least 10 robbery attacks were recorded in the two Municipalities within three months.
The recent attack by the robbers on June 6,2021 resulted in the death of a woman shot by the gang on Akyem Ettukrom to Bunso stretch of the Koforidua to Bunso Highway.
Two suspects – Haruna Amadu, 25 , and Joseph Nyira, 25 were however arrested few hours after the incident.
Two unregistered single barrel shot guns, one machete, cash the sum of GhC257.00, one itel screen touch mobile phone, three neck bags containing two voter ID cards belonging to two of the victims, assorted mobile sim cards belonging to victims and a black student bag containing shirts of the suspects were retrieved.
On May 24,2021 one person was shot during a similar highway robbery attack on Koforidua to Akyem Kukurantumi road in the Eastern region.
The robbers mounted roadblock about 4:30am at Barfuor Nkwanta near Sorkode Dwaso junction stretch of the road where Police mostly conduct checks on commuting vehicles
About 20 vehicles were alleged robbed by the armed robbers who made away with total of about Ghc50,000, according to a victim.
On Wednesday April 28,2021 ,the robbers attacked a Guest House and a gas filling station at Akyem Kukurantumi about 8:00pm amidst firing of gunshots, they also broke into a restaurant of the guest house,caused damage to the doors and took away Ghc137 from the gas filling station office.
They also took away a single barreled gun which was placed against a wall by the night security man who took to his heels during the robbery operation.
No casualties were recorded.
Seven empty BB cartridges, one live BB cartridge and three wads were retrieved at the scene.
The robbers escaped in dark saloon car w/o plated number.
The robbery happened barely three weeks after a similar fuel robbery led to the death of a 32-year-old Nuhu Yashawu at Akyem Osiem a nearby community.
One person also sustained gunshot wounds in the robbery incident which occured on Monday, April 5,2021 at about 7:20pm where four men armed with three pump action guns and a knife attacked Goodness Energy Filling station in the community.
The robbers absconded with unknown amount being the night sales of the fuel station.
The robbers also took away a Motorola phone belonging to the night security man Adamu Zakari ,30 .
Police retrieved five (5) empty cartridges at the scene.
Deputy Education Minister-designate and Member of Parliament for Assin South Rev. John Ntim Fordjour has assured teachers their welfare concerns are a priority to government.
According to him, plans are underway to launch a Teacher Welfare App to promptly address teachers’ welfare grievances.
The deputy minister-designate argues welfare of teachers is a major concern to government and assured all outstanding issues relative to teacher upgrading, recent promotion challenges, allowances and other concerns would be tackled with urgency required.
As a measure to holistically deal with concerns of teachers, Rev. Fordjour has disclosed a deployment of case managers to every region for timeous resolution of the concerns of teachers as part of efforts to improve their conditions of living.
The app, an initiative of the Minister for Education Dr. Yaw Osei Adutwum, is expected to help mitigate to a large extent, the many challenges relating to the welfare and management of teachers.
Speaking to the media at the 90th-anniversary celebration of the Ghana National Association of Teachers (GNAT) in Accra where he represented the sector minister, John Ntim Fordjour charged the teacher unions to have confidence in the ability of government to find solutions to the current challenges in the sector.
The occasion which was also used as an investment forum was on the theme: “Beyond Teachers’ Fund; Making the Teacher Economically Sound.”
Addressing the leadership and members of GNAT, he intimated that teachers across the country have contributed immensely to the socio-economic development of the nation. He reiterated government’s commitment to timeously address teacher welfare concerns.
He expressed delight at the judicious and productive initiatives undertaken by GNAT in their bid to improve the lots of its members. He particularly commended the business exploits of GNAT including the acquisition of majority shares in Unique Insurance and the Sweden Ghana Medical Centre. He also commended the GNAT for its investments in real estate and the rolling out of a housing scheme for members.
Rev. Ntim Fordjour assured teachers that the Ministry of Education will in due course make available 280,000 laptops to teachers on cost-sharing basis to equip them deliver more effectively.
He called on all teachers across the length and breath of the country to join hands with the Ministry of Education to build a world-class education system.
A 56-year-old fake Medical Doctor and her 36-year-old daughter have been arrested by Central Regional Police command at Assin Adedeamtem in the Assin South District of the Central region.
Speaking to EIB Network’s Central Regional Correspondent Yaw Boagyan, the Regional Police deputy PRO Sgt. Evans Isaac Entie said on July 23, 2021, at about 9:30 am, a team from the Complaints and Investigative Unit of the Ghana Medical and Dental Council from Accra, with a team of police personnel from the Assin Adadientem, acting upon information led to the arrest of 56-year-old suspect Samuel Odartei, an alleged quack doctor who had been operating for over five years from his residence at Assin Adadientem.
The team upon arrival chanced on his daughter, a 36-year-old suspect Alberta Lanuekor in a pair of gloves busily dressing a patient’s wound, whilst other patients waited to be attended to.
The two were arrested and escorted to the police station with a variety of operating items including prescriptive and over-the-counter medicines.
An investigation by EIB Network’s Central Regional Correspondent Yaw Boagyan revealed that that the two fake Doctors were operating without a license.
According to information, several illegal abortions had been done at their premises which has led to deaths in some cases.
Both suspects are in police custody assisting with investigations.
Four people have been swept away by floodwater at Bomso in the Oforikrom Municipality of the Ashanti region after a heavy downpour on Thursday 24th June 2021.
The assembly member for the Bomso electoral area Isaac Appiah who confirmed the unfortunate development said, a search team will be deployed on Friday to find the missing people.
Kumasi, the capital of Ashanti region has for the past two days witnessed serious flood disasters destroying properties worth millions of Ghana cedis.
The Kumasi Kejetia Market equally had its share of the flood on Wednesday where several shops in the new market flooded destroying goods.
The mayor of Kumasi Osei Asibey Antwi who is on sick leave told Starr FM’s Ashanti regional Correspondent Isaac Justice Bediako that the KMA technical team will hold an emergency meeting on the flooding development in Kumasi.
“This morning the assembly technical and the planning committee will hold an emergency meeting on the development. Since my life in Kumasi, I have [not] seen the city flooding like this before. Currently, we need to put together a serious comprehensive plan, our gutters are too small to carry the floodwaters,” he said.
He added that the committee after the meeting will tour the affected areas to look at how best the assembly can assist the victims and also look at the immediate measures the assembly can put in place.
Some residents of the Effia-Kwesimintsim Municipality and the Sekondi Takoradi Metropolis have expressed fears over what they say is the increasing spate of robberies in the area.
It follows the mob arrest of two out of three suspected robbers at Tanokrom, a suburb of the Effia-Kwesimintsim Municipality after the suspects on a speeding motorbike snatched a bag containing an undisclosed amount of money from a lady around the ‘God is Love chop bar’ area.
Luck, however, eluded them after they were given a hot chase and later apprehended close to the Takoradi Mall but one managed to escape in the process and is currently at large.
Bystanders who witnessed the incident reportedky handed the robbers severe beatings before they were handed over to the police. The victim was lucky to have had been given her valuables.
Last weekend, residents of Anaji SSNIT flats had to sacrifice their sleep as a gang of motor riders took over the area to display their riding skills till the morning.
Again on Monday morning June 21, three suspects on a motorbike were captured on CCTV camera attempting to break into a popular pub at Anaji Westline Back in the Sekondi-Takoradi Metropolis.  The Assemblymember of the Amanful West electoral and Takoradi Constituency Chairman of the ruling New Patriotic Party (NPP) Prince Kojo Arthur has for the umpteenth time complained about how the riders are endangering the lives of people.
He said several reports to the police about the criminal activities of the motor riders have all not received favorable responses.
Nelson Roland, a robbery victim sharing his ordeal said a motor rider rammed into his back bumper while in traffic and when he decided to step outside the car to check the extent of damage, he returned to realize his iPhone 12 and other valuables on the front seat of his car had been stolen within a spate of two minutes.
Some market women and traders at the Koforidua Central market who were customers of defunct Fanteakwa Rural Bank have resurfaced with fresh agitations over their locked-up savings.
The agitating victims have called on President Akufo-Addo and the Speaker of Parliament, Alban Bagbin as well as the Bank of Ghana to help them retrieve their monies.
Fanteakwa Rural Bank owned by the incumbent MP for Fanteakwa North Amankwah Asiamah was established in the year 2004 but collapsed in 2012.
The Bank had its headquarters at Begoro and branches in Koforidua, Osiem, Suhum, Anyinam, and other parts of the region.
It is estimated that over 1,000 customers had their funds locked up.
The victims are mostly farmers, traders, drivers, teachers, fetish priests, small-scale miners, and small-scale enterprises.
The locked-up funds unleashed hardship on the victims some of whom died as a result while affected small scale enterprises  collapsed
Most of the customers had between five hundred Ghana cedis (GHS500.00) and twenty-seven thousand Ghana cedis (GHS27,000.00) locked up in the collapsed bank.
Many demonstrations were staged particularly before the 2016 election by the victims to exert pressure on the then Opposition lawmaker to refund their locked-up fund. Some victims received their funds but many others have still not received theirs.
Addressing the media in Koforidua, the aggrieved victims, numbering about twenty (20), chastised the lawmaker for failing to initiate plans of paying back customers.
According to them, several attempts to get their funds refunded have proven futile as they accused the MP of even failing to respond to their calls.
A 72-year old trader Elizabeth Amoah, narrating her ordeal to the media, revealed the MP promised to refund her money after the 2020 general elections but has since refused to even respond to her calls.
“I went to Begoro during the 2020 campaign season to demand my money but the MP apologized to me and promised to pay it soon after the election is over. It is sad to inform you that, the MP has not been picking my calls since after the elections, which he won,” she lamented.
She added “how can I be defrauded by an MP of my GHC12,000.000 after so many years of savings and be walking freely as a lawmaker. I am appealing to President Akufo-Addo and the Speaker to speak to Amankwah Asiamah to refund my money or we shall gather ourselves at the Jubilee House and Parliament to demand our money”.
Another victim stated “we are pleading with President Akufo Addo and the speaker, Kennedy Agyapong to intervene I am a strong NPP supporter but this MP is treating us bad. During the 2020 election I went to Begoro with my daughter to see the MP he snubbed us, I cried why should we be treated like this ”
Several other traders shared their harrowing situation including collapsed marriages as a result of hardship the locked-up funds brought upon them.
The Member of Parliament for Fanteakwa North Amankwah Asiamah who was the Chief Executive Officer of the collapsed Bank declined to comment on the latest agitations
But had earlier denied loaning deposits of the victims to sponsor Nana Akufo Addo’s campaign as alleged in 2012, hence the collapse as is peddled.
According to the MP, it is also incorrect that the bank owes over 1,000 customers explaining that his outfit managed to refund deposits of the majority of the customers.
The former Ranking Member for the Mines and Energy Committee of Parliament, Adam Mutawkilu has taunted Ghana’s Attorney General over the $170 million judgment debt case saying he would have won if the case was tried in Ghana.
According to him, the AG would have resorted to means and ways to win the case.
“We looked at it meticulously and realized that it has met all the conditions and parliament approval was condition precedent. So for me, there was no need for government to have canceled the project. No! And they know that when it goes anywhere in the world, government will lose. Then probably they thought it will be handled in Ghana. Maybe they can flex their muscles to find their way out,” the former lawmaker told Francis Abban on the Morning Starr Thursday.
The Attorney General has however blamed the erstwhile Mahama administration for the situation.
Residents in the Ajumako Ochiso Community of the Central region are excited beyond measure as a mammoth quantity of fish has appeared in their river [Ochi], which used to be just a source of drinking water for them.

This happened after Thursday dawn’s downpour. According to the residents, the mystery was a blessing from the gods.

Leaders in the community poured libations and opened up for inhabitants to apportion the bounty and take it home.

Speaking to Kasapa FM’s central regional correspondent Yaw Boagyan, Wofa Yaw Obosu who used to work at the bank of the river narrated that this has never happened since he came into the area and he also believes it’s a blessing for the community.

According to him, they will send some of the fishes to the market for sale. “Since the fishes appeared at the river bank, I have been able to employ over twenty youth to work for me to process for sale at the Mankessim, Kasoa, markets.”

“This is beyond my understanding since something of this nature has never happened in the Ajumako Ochiso Community.”

Meanwhile, some of the residents who came went the scene also appealed to the Ministry of Fisheries and Aquaculture to come and assist them in terms of providing them with tricycles to be able to transport the fishes to the market.

“We don’t have job to do in the Ajumako Ochiso Community here so this will enable us to be employed to get money to take care of our children’s education and household. We are therefore calling on authorities to come and assist us to address the challenges we are facing in the Ajumako Ochiso Community as regards employment,” a resident appealed.

The Assembly Member of the Ajumako Ochiso South Maxwell Mensah also appealed to the Ministry of Fisheries and Aquaculture and other government to assist the community members in terms of providing logistics to be able to fish for more fishes in the river for the youth to be employed.
The Executive Director for the Institute of Energy Security, Nana Amoasi VII, has taken a swipe at the Attorney General, Godfred Dame, describing him as negligent for his failure to defend Ghana on the $170 million judgment debt awarded to power company, The Ghana Power Generation Company (GCGP).

In an interview on the Morning Starr on Thursday, Nana Amoasi VII called on the Attorney General to account to Ghanaians why he failed to appeal the $170 million judgment debt in time.

“We had an opportunity to go and appeal against the decision and we chose to use Covid-19 and election as excuses. The Attorney General was negligent as well. He didn’t act well. He could have defended us better so we should look into it.”

His comments come after the Commercial Court in London rejected a late appeal from Ghana against a judgement debt award of US$170 million in favour of power contractor, The Ghana Power Generation Company (GCGP).

According to the London Court, the government of Ghana failed to apply and set aside the January 26, 2021 decision of the London-based United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) Tribunal.

The court in a ruling on Wednesday, June 8, refused to grant the government of Ghana an extension to apply to set aside the award – adding that the state’s grounds for challenging it were “intrinsically weak”.

The government through its lawyer Godfred Dame had attempted to hide behind the 2020 general election and the COVID-19 pandemic as excuses for the delay, but their excuses were dismissed by the London court.

GPGC was represented before the court by Charles Kimmins QC and Mark Tushingham, where Ghana was said to have been too late to challenge the decision against it.

Ghana had used Khawar Qureshi QC of Serle Court and Volterra Fietta, having initially retained Omnia Strategy. In the arbitration, GPGC, used Three Crowns and Ghanaian firm, Kimathi & Partners, along with damages experts from FTI Consulting.

Ghana also had representation from the attorney general’s office and Amofa & Partners in Accra.

The three-member arbitration tribunal chaired by John Beechey, a former President of the International Criminal Court’s Court of Arbitration, and co-chaired by Prof Albert Fiadjoe, a Ghanaian academic, sided with the power producer and awarded almost US$170 million, including interest.

Out of the total, U$134.35 million represents the early termination payment claim, which itself is made up of US $69.36 million as an early termination fee, US$58.49 million for mobilisation costs, US$6.46 million as demobilisation cost and US$32,448 as preservation and maintenance cost.

The tribunal also awarded US$614,353.86 against the country as the cost of the tribunal, and costs of US$3 million against Ghana, being the legal fees expended by the GPGC during the arbitration.

Major highlights of the tribunal’s decision included the fact that the Ahenkora Committee which recommended the termination of the contract did not have sufficient ground in coming to the conclusion that the GPGC was entitled to only $US18 million in early termination fees.

The tribunal, in dismissing Ghana’s case, delved into the basis for terminating the contract, stating that the evidence before it indicated that “GPGC did have a building permit for the Blue Ocean Site issued by the Kpone-Katamanso District Assembly on  August 15, 2017.”

“GoG [The government] has not been able to adduce any statute or regulation, including the Energy Commission Act, which addresses the requirement for any such additional construction permit,” the Tribunal ruled.

“On the basis of the record as it now stands, it is apparent that even as Dr. Ahenkorah [Energy Commission Executive Secretary at the time]  was putting up further hurdles over which he required GPGC to jump in pursuit of its provisional generation license in November 2017, the Minister of Energy was about to seek the approval of the Ghanaian Parliament of a decision to terminate the EPA along with a number of other PPAs, based upon the Report of the PPA Committee chaired by Dr. Ahenkorah,” it said.

Under British law, the government had 28 days to challenge the tribunal’s decision. However, it went to sleep only to appear in court three days to the expiry of the deadline to ask for an extension.

Omnia Strategy, a British law firm, made the case for extension and asked for 56 days—twice the allowed grace period.

However, the court set March 8, 2021, for the Government to file the processes to challenge the Tribunal’s decision in January. But again, the government took a long nap until April 1, 2021, before filing. This time, another British law firm, Volterra Fietta, had instructions from the government to begin the process.

The law firm, which tagged itself as the only dedicated public international law firm in the world, explained that the new Attorney General, Godfred Yeboah Dame, had only been sworn in on March 5, and the firm received the directive to represent Ghana 10 days later.

But ruling on the matter on June 8, 2021, the court had no sympathies. It said the excuses were unreasonable and “intrinsically weak.”

The presiding judge, Justice Butcher did not hold back.

The judge said the government’s delay was “significant and substantial” as its request for a second extension had come 38 days after the statutory deadline and 27 days after the first extension expired, the Global Arbitration Review (GAR) reported.

He noted that the large sum of money involved in the arbitration was not enough grounds for the appeal to take as long as it did.

“The fact that the Attorney General had not been sworn until March 5 did not mean the government was unable to act in the meantime, the judge said.

Background to the arbitration 

The International Court of Arbitration in January 2021 awarded a cost of $134 million and an interest of $30 million against the Government of Ghana over the cancellation of an Emergency Power Agreement with GCGP limited.

The Contract was cancelled under the former Energy Minister Boakye Agyarko as part of several other energy contracts cancelled by the NPP on the basis that the country did not need those power agreements.

The ruling by the International Court of Arbitration ordered the government to Ghana to pay to “GPGC the full value of the Early Termination Payment, together with Mobilization, Demobilization and preservation and maintenance costs in the amount of US$ 134,348,661, together also with interest thereon from 12 November 2018 until the date of payment, accruing daily and compounded monthly, at the rate of LIBOR for six-month US dollar deposits plus six per cent(6%).”

The Government of Ghana was also to pay GPGC an amount of “US$ 309,877.74 in respect of the Costs of the Arbitration, together with US$ 3,000,000 in respect of GPGC’s legal representation and the fees and expenses of its expert witness, together with interest on the aggregate amount of US$ 3,309,877.74 at the rate of LIBOR for three-month US dollar deposits, compounded quarterly.”
A baby has been reportedly washed away in Sawaba in Kumasi following the Wednesday evening rains in the Ashanti regional capital.

The baby was traveling with his parents in a tricycle when they got stuck in a flood causing the tricycle to tip over.

Residents in the community, according to reports, moved in to save the parents but could not find the baby as he was washed away by the flood.

“The body of the baby who was washed away hasn’t been found. The parents are not taking it easy at all. When it rains, it’s difficult to use the Sawaba road. The gutters become flooded so we don’t know why the tricycle rider tried using the road that led to the death of the 1-yr-old baby,” a resident told Francis Abban on the Morning Starr Thursday.

Other reports also say the convoy of President Akufo-Addo which was returning from the Upper East region got stuck in the flood.
A suspected notorious armed robber, Iddrisu Adams alias Koomi, who was arrested by the Ashanti Regional Police Command in connection with a series of robberies has been shot by Police in a bid to stop him from escaping lawful custody.
The suspect was on the wanted list of the command and was arrested on 22nd June 2021 through a special police operation.
On 23rd June 2021, he was being escorted to places named by him as hide-outs of his accomplices when he attempted to escape. The police responded swiftly by shooting him.
The suspect was taken to the St. Martins Hospital where he was pronounced dead.
A release by the police stated that they are on the lookout for his accomplices who are advised to surrender by reporting to the nearest Police Station.
The Police also assured the public of their commitment to prevent and fight crime and called on the public for cooperation.
The Minister for National Security Albert Kan Dapaah has revealed details surrounding the forceful eviction of former Ashanti Regional Security Coordinator DCOP Opare-Addo (rtd) from office by some National Security operatives.

According to Kan Dapaah, the move became necessary after several attempts to get the security Coordinator to vacate post after the termination of his appointment proved futile.

The ejected coordinator told Starr News he was evicted by members of NPP affiliated vigilante group, Delta Force, who assaulted him in the process for failing to do their bidding in the region.

But answering questions from South Dayi MP Rockson-Nelson Dafeamekpo, the national security minister explained the men dispatched were national security operatives.

He, however, refused to disclose reasons for the termination of the appointment of Mr. Opare-Addo insisting the use of force was necessary under the circumstances.

“He [Opare-Addo] was on a three-year contract to serve as the Ashanti regional security liaison officer after the expiration of an initial two-year contract which began on January 5th, 2018. His new appointment took effect from January 1, 2020, and was to expire on December 31, 2022.”

“However, his appointment was terminated on February 19, 2021, by the national security coordinator. Upon the termination of his contract, DCOP Opare-Addo was paid his entitlements as per his appointment letter. Subsequent to the termination of the appointment, the ministry appointed Col Francis Arthur (rtd) as the new Ashanti regional security liaison officer. The colonel’s appointment took effect from 1st May 2021. But he [Opare-Addo] refused to hand over to Colonel Francis Arthur. He then declined numerous invitations from the national security coordinator to explain his refusal to vacate the office.”

Mr Dapaah further explained “Meanwhile, his continuous stay in office obstructed the work of the new regional security liaison officer. Against this backdrop, personnel from the ministry of national security were on 11th May 2021 dispatched to the Ashanti region to ascertain the reason for DCOP Opare Addo’s refusal to vacate his office. And if it became necessary to change the locks of the door to his office. On arrival, the personnel duly introduced themselves but were met with acts of hostility from DCOP Opare-Addo, including drawing his sidearm. The personnel managed to persuade him and retrieved the sidearm.”

He added “till date, no official complaint has been made by DCOP Opare-Addo either to his immediate boss the national security coordinator or to me as the sector minister regarding the alleged assault on him. Neither has the minister of national security received any correspondence from the police in relation to the allegations.”

“I will want to assure the house of our willingness to investigate the incident should any official complaint be made by DCOP Opare-Addo.”
Outgoing British High Commissioner to Ghana, Iain Walker, and Chief Executive Officer of EIB Network Nathan Kwabena Adisi also known as Bola Ray on Wednesday embarked on a ‘Waakye tour’ on the streets of Accra along with King Promise.

The tour dubbed ‘Taste Ghana’ spearheaded by Bola Ray was to give the High Commissioner a taste of Ghana’s popular street dishes. The Waakye tour started from a popular Waakye joint at Accra New Town and ended at one of the preferred Waakye joints in Nima.
Police in Adeiso in the Eastern Region have intercepted four (4) pump action guns and seventy-eight live cartridges from a vehicle allegedly belonging to a sand-winning Company.

Information gathered indicates that on June 21, 2021, at about 3:00 am Adeiso Police Command gathered intelligence that there was illegal sand winning ongoing at Okaikrom community near Adeiso.

Police dispatched a team to the area and met some tipper trucks and two payloaders winning sand.

The tipper truck drivers and the payloader operators sped off on seeing the Police but the Police managed to arrest suspect Klutse Kofi who was in charge of Mitsubishi Pickup with registration number GE 7191-19.

A search conducted in the Pickup led to the retrieval of four Pump Action guns with 78 live cartridges.

The Public Relations Officer of the Eastern Regional Police Command confirmed the arrest to Starr News.

He said the suspect told Police that the weapons belonged to Sammertide Construction and Sand Winning Company.

He said the suspect has been detained while the four Pump Action guns retained at the Station.

This is happening on the back of an attack on the mining site by some armed men.

On June 15, 2021, at about 2:00 pm, the first complainant Osae Kwame was returning from his farm to Adeiso town to buy food for his farm labourers but met the accused persons who were in a convoy of three pick-up vehicles and a Jeep vehicle with registration number GS 9835-19, stopped by him, handcuffed and abducted him into one of the Pick-Up vehicles and drove him to Tank Akuraa a farming community near Adeiso.

Police upon receipt of distress calls about the incident rushed to the village and rescued him but the accused persons sped off from the scene and invaded the Summertide Company sand-winning site at Obeng Yaw village also near Adeiso amidst sporadic firing of gunshots.

The second complainant Alhassan Zakari was shot on the left leg during the indiscriminate firing of gunshots.

They violently arrested five(5) persons at the site, whisked them into their vehicles, and drove away to an unknown location.

The owner of the site alleged he later detected that the accused persons stole Ghc96,000 at the site during the gun violence.

The five persons arrested by the accused persons were later rescued by Kyebi Police after the wireless message was activated by police.

At about 4:20 pm, the accused persons were arrested by the Adeiso Police.

A search conducted in a Jeep vehicle belonging to Nana Barfuor Sarpong who claimed to be National Security Operative detected one Ak47 assault rifle, one pistol, and three(3) spent shells which were retrieved by the Police.

The victims -Alhassan Zakaria and Bright Apama who sustained gunshot wounds on their legs were receiving treatment at the Eastern Regional Hospital in Koforidua.

Meanwhile, the Eastern Regional CID has taken over the case.

Accused persons granted Bail

The Koforidua Circuit Court admitted the five(5) accused persons including Akyem Abuakwa chief who claim to be a National Security Operative to bail in the sum of 200,000 cedis with 2 sureties.

The accused persons are Nana Barfuor Sarpong, Nana Barima Twum Tarbiade II, both sub-chiefs in Akyem Abuakwa.

The rest are Jonathan Martey ,Eric Yaw Obeng ,Victor Ahenkora Koranteng ,and others at large .

They were arraigned before the court on Friday, June 19, 2021, on seven charges which are; conspiracy to commit a crime with kidnapping, Kidnapping, causing unlawful harm, stealing, conspiracy to commit robbery, robbery, possession of firearm and ammunition

The case has been adjourned to 19th July 2021.

The Prosecuting Officer Cyril Boateng Keteku, Assistant State Attorney explained to the court that, the first complainant in the case, Osae Kwame, 59, is a farmer while the second complainant Alhassan Zakari, 39, is also a farmer.

The third complainant Samuel Astu Forson is Chief of Adeiso also Executive Officer of Summertide sand winning Company.

He said the accused persons are Nana Baffuor Sarpong who claimed to be National Security Personnel attached to Forestry Commission as training Coordinator and timber monitoring officer.

The second accused person Nana Barima Twum Tabirade claimed to be the boundary Chief of all Akyem lands. The third accused person Jonathan Martey is a driver to Nana Barfuor, the fourth accused person Eric Yaw Obeng claimed to be an aide to the Nana Barfuor, while the fifth accused person Victor Ahenkora Koranteng claimed to be Immigration Officer.

The other accused persons are at large
The Government has moved to avert attacks from Burkinabe bandits in Ghana as it announces the construction of permanent barracks in Bawku to enhance security in that part of the country

The announcement made by President Akufo-Addo comes just a week after security agencies were put on high alert to fore-planned attacks by bandits from Burkina Faso.

He was speaking at a meeting with the Bawku Naba to end his tour of the Upper-East region.

“The proximity of your region to Burkina Faso makes it an obvious potential target for these murderers and criminals who want to destabilize and terrorize our lives in Ghana.”

He went on”Bawku Naba, you are aware of the measures that the government is taking to strengthen the security agencies here and protect us from terrorist attacks emanating from Burkina Faso.

“And I’m happy to inform you that a permanent baracks is going to be established here in this area to be able to address the issue of terrorism.”

Meanwhile, the Bawku Naba, who is also President of the Kusaug Traditional Council, Asigiri Abugrago Azoka II, said the Chiefs and People of the Kusaug Traditional Area, and, indeed, all Ghanaians appreciate the policies of the President of the Republic, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo.

Congratulating President Akufo-Addo on his electoral victory, “which has put the destiny of Ghana firmly in your hands for the next four (4) years”, the Bawku Naba told the President that “you have worked hard to earn that enviable position. I wish you God’s continued blessing in wisdom as well as good health to execute your policies.”
A survey conducted by Child Rights International has revealed that 55% out of 11, 288 children between the ages of 12 and 17 sampled want to leave Ghana for greener pastures abroad.

Eleven percent said they were not certain about staying or leaving the country.

“55% of the respondents say they wish to migrate to another country, while 11% would either stay in the country or leave. A majority of the respondents cited greener pastures, education and better standard of living as reasons why they would leave the country when there is a chance,” the survey said.

On whether they are optimistic in the future of the nation, the survey said: “Nearly 80% of the respondents say they are optimistic about Ghana in the next 20 years. More than two in ten (22%) see the country’s future as bleak”.On Education and opportunities, the survey said: “Over half of the children (53%) say they are optimistic. 47% of the respondents paint a bleak picture as to how the country’s current educational system would help them find jobs in the next 20 years”.
Some youth groups in the Ashanti region have threatened to shut down branches of the  Lighthouse Chapel International in the region over a critical sermon delivered by the leader of the church Bishop Dag Heward-Mills which appeared to attack the Ashanti Monarch Otumfuo Osei Tutu.

The said sermon, which has found its way onto social media, is said to be questioning the impact of the influential king on his subjects and community.

According to the group, the popular televangelist has slighted the revered traditional leader and must go beyond an apology to atone for his sins.

“We are calling on Bishop Dag to seek wise counsel within 48 hours. Otherwise, none of his churches in the Asanteman enclave will be allowed to operate. Also, we are warning all and sundry who hide behind religion and politics to push this evil agenda against Asanteman and his royal majesty Otumfuo Osei Tutu. We will let them know that we will meet them up with brute force” the General Secretary of one of the groups Kwabena Frimpong said.

Bishop Dag Heward-Mills has however apologised over the sermon.

In an apology, the Preacher said: “I am deeply saddened that a message I shared at a conference, nearly 20 years ago, has been taken out of its context and circulated by persons who have previously declared that they will maliciously cause our churches in Kumasi to be closed down.

“I wish to apologize to His Majesty Otumfuo Nana Osei Tutu II for any disrespect, insult or harm caused him or his royal court. Please accept my profound apologies for the statements I made”.

The National Democratic Congress has slammed Chief Justice Kwasi Anin-Yeboah, describing his petition to the General Legal Council against lawmaker, Dominic Ayine, as an attempt to suppress free speech.

Dr Ayine is reported to have said the Supreme Court failed to apply the rules of procedure during the trial. He is also believed to have raised concerns over the regular dismissal of the petitioners’ applications during the case.

He made the comments at an event organised by the Centre for Democratic Development (CDD) and the KNUST.

The petition by the Chief Justice urged the GLC to probe the lawmaker over the comments and apply the necessary sanctions.

Addressing a Press Conference on Monday, the General Secretary of the NDC, Johnson Asiedu Nketia called on the Chief Justice to immediately the petition against the MP for Bolgatanga East.

“Public confidence in the judiciary must be earned and not forced on us. How many times have you heard any court telling anybody that I’m going to give a judgment but I’m warning you not to talk about it?” Mr Asiedu Nketia popularly known as General Mosquito said.

He added that “The judiciary, like parliament or executive, is not above criticism…Our laws and constitution protect the integrity and independence of the judiciary and not the sensibility of a judge. The notion that the judicial arm of gov’t is beyond reproach is a fantasy that can’t be sustained.”

Mr Asiedu Nketia also accused the Chief Justice of targeting NDC affiliated lawyers and called on him to stop the witch-hunt.

“It’s no coincidence that virtually all the lawyers who have been reported to the disciplinary committee of the General Legal council by the Chief Justice, Justice Kwasi Anin Yeboah in recent times are aligned to the NDC. What is the Chief Justice’s personal interest in the punishment of NDC affiliated lawyers that his he’s so keen to initiate unwarranted actions against them”
Ghana has been ranked the second most peaceful country in Africa behind Mauritius in the 2021 Global Peace Index report by the Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP).

The Global Peace Index is the world’s leading measure of global peacefulness. The index ranks 163 independent states and territories according to their level of peacefulness. This report presents the most comprehensive data-driven analysis to date on trends in peace, its economic value, and how to develop peaceful societies.

In the latest rankings, Ghana ranked 38th in the world out of a total of 163 countries reviewed. Ghana scored 1.715 which represents a two-point move upwards from the country’s previous position.

Mauritius, the most peaceful country in Africa ranked 28th globally, while Botswana ranked third place in Africa and 41st in the world. Nigeria ranked 146 globally behind Togo, Uganda, Kenya, The Republic of Congo and Cameroon.

Iceland remains the most peaceful country in the world, a position it has held since 2008. It is joined at the top of the index by New Zealand, Denmark, Portugal, and Slovenia.

Afghanistan is the least peaceful country in the world for the fourth consecutive year, followed by Yemen, Syria, South Sudan, and Iraq. Burkina Faso recorded the largest deterioration in the Global Peace Index 2021.

According to the report, half of the population in Sub-Saharan Africa had a recent experience of violence. Those living in Namibia had the highest experience of violence in the world at 6 per cent.

South Sudan remains the least peaceful country in the region and one of the least peaceful countries in the world, despite an improvement in peacefulness in the 2021 index.

The largest deterioration in peacefulness in the region occurred in Burkina Faso. This was also the single largest deterioration of any country. The government’s decision to fund and arm civilian auxiliary groups in its fight against insurgents drove the plunge.

The report highlighted that civil unrest rose 10 per cent globally, driven by the coronavirus pandemic. There were 14,871 violent demonstrations, protests and riots recorded globally in 2020.

The report said Covid was a “multiplying force” in future political instability and civil unrest. It added the level of this unrest going forward is likely to hinge on the speed and effectiveness of economic recovery. Countries with less debt and higher levels of positive peace were more likely to recover faster.

Despite this, overall three-quarters of people globally feel as safe or safer today than they did five years ago. Some indicators of violence have recorded significant improvements since the start of the index, and 123 countries have seen murder rates fall since 2008.

The Index also revealed that “the average level of global peacefulness deteriorated by 0.07 per cent in the 2021 Global Peace Index. Although a relatively small deterioration, this is the ninth time in the last 13 years that global peacefulness has deteriorated”.

The report added that “in the past year, 87 countries recorded an improvement in peacefulness, while 73 countries recorded a deterioration. Three countries recorded no change in their overall score. The Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region remained the world’s least peaceful region. It is home to three of the five least peaceful countries in the world. However, it recorded the largest regional improvement over the past year”.

“Europe…remains the most peaceful region in the world. The region is home to eight of the ten most peaceful countries, and no country in Europe is ranked outside the top half of the index”.
President-elect Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has assured Ghanaians that they will see an improvement in the standard of living under his presidency.

According to him, the next four years must have a positive impact on the life of the ordinary Ghanaian.

“I am extremely concerned, that the next four years will see a marked improvement in the living standards of the people of Ghana,” the president-elect made the comments during his official tour to Nigeria after he won the presidential elections.

Mr. Akufo-Addo addressing the Governor of the Imo State in Nigeria Owelle Rochas Anayo Okorocha, Monday added: “the Ghanaian economy has taken a hit in these last three or four years but we believe with discipline, with hard work and correct set of policies we should be able to bring the country back to prosperity.”

The president-elect who beat Incumbent President, John Dramani Mahama in the just ended presidential election is on a three-day visit to Nigeria where he will have discussions with the oil producing country’s leader, Muhammudu Buhari.

Mr. Akufo-Addo also assured the Imo State governor that relationship between the two West African countries will be strengthened under his presidency.

“We value the historic relationship between the two countries. It is important that such links are established between our people and our leaders. They give confidence to our populations that we are working to try and resolve their problems and help them progress with their lives…the stronger the relationship between the two countries is, the better it is for the West Africa Region and the continent large,” he added.
President John Dramani Mahama has confirmed Joseph Whittal as the new Commissioner for the Commission on Human Rights and Administrative Justice (CHRAJ).

Mr. Whittal was sworn-in at a short ceremony at the Flagstaff House Tuesday afternoon.

Mr. Whittal has been acting as the head for CHRAJ since the former commissioner, Lauretta Vivian Lamptey was removed by the President after causing financial loss to the state.

The President has appointed Ms. Josephine Nkrumah as the substantive head of the National Commission for Civic Education (NCCE).

Ms. Nkrumah who was a deputy chairman for the commission replaces Mrs. Charlotte Osei, wdho was as the head of the country’s Electoral Commission by the President in July last year.

The appointments come few weeks after the President lost the presidential election to opposition NPP leader Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo.

The president-elect will be sworn-in on January 7, 2017.
GN Health Insurance Company Ltd, one of the 75 companies of Groupe Nduom has begun operating Ambulance Services in Ghana.

It is expected to among other tasks offer emergency medical service and administer emergency care to those with acute medical problems.

The GN Health Ambulance Service shall also provide a 24-hour response to medical and trauma related emergencies and interventions.

The chairman of GN Health Issah Adam noted “once again the President and CEO of Groupe Nduom, Dr Papa Kwesi Nduom, as well as the Senior Vice President, Mrs Yvonne Nduom and all the Directors are once more setting the pace in terms of providing improved welfare services to employees of the Group”.

He told the gathering of health professionals “this marks yet another milestone in the annals of Groupe Nduom. In addition to providing free medical services, they are adding this Ambulance Service to complete the bouquet of Medical Services for the benefit of employees of the group in Greater Accra and Central Regions”.

Over 60% of deaths in Ghana, according to available statistics, are as a result of unavailable ambulance service to transport women in labour and accident victims to the appropriate medical facility. Experts believe the conditions leading to deaths can be addressed by appropriate and timely emergency care like what GN Health Ambulance Service seeks to achieve.

“GN Health will make sure that we have well trained EMTs (Emergency Medical Technicians) and Ambulance Drivers who are well trained and know exactly what to do in emergency situations.

“The Ford 350 ambulances, are well equipped with modern equipment and consumables needed for emergency situations and pre-hospital care to patients. Please take note that these are not just ambulances to provide transport services that cannot provide proper pre-hospital care,” he added.

The Ambulances have a more robust set of equipment for pre-hospital care. They are equipped with tools necessary for multiple types of emergencies, from respiratory assistance machines and defibrillators to items as simple as bandages and disinfectant solution.
Government has promised to absorb the costs of treatment for injured victims of Thursday’s gas explosion at La.

Six people have been confirmed dead in the gas explosion that occurred near the Trade Fair Centre in Accra while over 20 people have sustained various degrees of injuries.

The Health Minister Alex Segbefia visiting victims at the La General, Police and 37 Military hospitals where some of the victims were receiving treatment, commended medical officers for their professionalism in caring for the victims.

“The president has indicated clearly that all the costs of the burn victims from this incident will be covered by the state, so we’ve made it clear to the management and the Brigadier General-in-charge, the commandant, that they should quickly put together all the logistics and costs of caring for these patients.

“As you know with burn victims, there is the need to constantly wash, constantly change dressing, and put them on antibiotics and very strong pain killers, so there is for each patient a cost. You have to bring in extra staff to actually deal with it and this has been done in a very military-type fashion in this hospital,” he stated.

Meanwhile, President John Dramani Mahama has called on Ghanaians to pray for victims of Thursday’s gas explosion.

In a Facebook post Friday, the outgoing president took to his Facebook wall to console the victims.

“My condolences to families of the victims of yesterday’s gas explosion; let’s continue to pray for the injured.”
A gas station near the Ghana International Trade Fair Centre in Accra has exploded with five people burnt to death.
The fire, according to an eyewitness also affected parts of the national exhibition and trade centre.
According to Veronica Koomson, an ambulance and fire tenders at the scene managed to fight the intense blaze which has sent people running helter-skelter.
“The fire is blazing and we are doing everything possible to quench it. The Armed Forces fire fighters are here too and doing everything possible to ensure this fire is actually extinguished,” the spokesperson of the Ghana National Fire Service (GNFS) Prince Billy-Anaglatey told Starr News’ Kemini Amanor on Thursday.
Koomson said another gas station which is situated near the burning one is likely to go up in flames if the fire fighters do not put up measures to salvage the situation.
However, Billy-Anaglatey said he cannot confirm any casualty, adding “our concern now is to confine the fire” so it does not catch up with the other.”
The cause of the explosion is not known. There is total blackout at the area as electricity cables also caught fire in the melee.
One person has died in a ghastly accident which occurred last night at Ekumfi Akoti in the Ekumfi district of the Central region.
The deceased, a Nigerian, lost his life when the truck he was driving veered off the road and caught fire.
The truck which was loaded with Cola was on its way to Nigeria from Mankessim.
According to eyewitnesses, the vehicle veered into a nearby bush when the deceased lost control.
However,  bystanders managed to save two other passengers who were in the vehicle before it caught fire, and burnt  the driver to death on the spot.  
The two are currently receiving treatment at the Cape Coast regional hospital.
Officers of the Ghana Fire Service later arrived at the scene to control the inferno.
The accident brings to two, the number of terrible accidents that have occurred in the area over the last two weeks.
A fortnight  ago, 15 people died on the same stretch of road in a crash between a Yutong bus and a Sprinter.
Some chiefs in the Ga traditional area have given the Gbese mantse, Nii Ayibonte, a seven-day ultimatum to relinquish his throne.
The Chiefs are angry with the Gbese Chief over claims he made prior to the 2016 general elections.
Nii Ayibonte promised to abdicate his throne if president John Mahama loses the presidential election.
Nii Ayibonte told his subjects before the election that he had no doubt Mahama would win the election based on the numerous infrastructural projects.
But luck eluded the former Chairman of Accra Hearts of Oak after he gambled with his seat.
Nii Ayibonte has not whispered a word about what he intends to do after the massive victory of Nana Akufo-Addo.
The Ga Chiefs who are demanding he abdicates his throne have also pricked old wounds. They are also challenging his eligibility as the Gbese chief.
Two women were killed and more than 12 others injured, after a car lost control on the abandoned Daboya- Busunu road in the Northern region and rammed into a gutter Tuesday evening, police have confirmed.
The car, a mini van had 14 passengers who were being transported to Daboya from Sawla to attend an Islamic wedding ceremony.
The West Gonja district police commander ASP Seidu Wemeh said the car with registration number AS 2304-15 upon reaching a community near Daboya suddenly veered off the road and summer saulted into a gutter killing the two instantly .
The deceased were female adults between the ages of 42- 45 respectively.
It is still undetermined what caused the crash but according to ASP Seidu, police will technically investigate the mental state of the driver and whether alcohol was involved.
He added most of the injured were transported to the regional hospital in Tamale with only one being treated at Damongo.
Accident on the Daboya-Busunu road are uncommon despite its bad nature.
Community members have denied the report saying this is the first time in the year an accident is recorded on the neglected road. 
They say most accidents go unreported.
The Minister of Energy, Dr Matthew Opoku Prempeh, has said the Government is working towards boosting Ghana's industrialisation with clean and reliable energy systems, such as nuclear and renewables.
He said there was a growing consensus that nuclear energy had an important role in decarbonising electricity generation for accelerated industrial development.
“While renewable energy sources are expected to continue to grow significantly, nuclear power, an important part of today’s clear energy, is also the largest source of lower-carbon electricity generation in advanced economies, providing approximately 40 percent of all low carbon generations,” he said.
He referred to an International Energy Agency report on clean energy system asserting that without nuclear investment, achieving a sustainable energy system would be much harder with implications to emissions, cost and energy security.
Dr Opoku Prempeh stated this, in a speech read on his behalf, at a Stakeholders Forum on Ghana’s Nuclear Power Programme in Accra.
Under the theme: “Nuclear Energy Innovations: The Future Technologies for Clean Energy and how to drive deep decarbonisation of Ghana’s power sector", the forum was organised by the Association of Ghana Industries (AGI), in collaboration with Nuclear Power Ghana (NPG).
Dr Opoku Prempeh noted that turning to clean energy systems for electricity generation would also decarbonise other areas, such as transportation, and other environmental pollution activities.
"Within Ghana’s power generation side, issues on consistent demand growth, high tariff for industries, affordability, reliability, and resilience criteria have brought to the fore the issue of an alternative base-load power," he stated.
Considering the facts available on the country's energy needs, capacity, cost and other related issues, nuclear energy, he said, could provide that alternative clean base-load power.
“A new nuclear power station does not only generate reliable low carbon electricity but also provides wider social-economic benefits both during its development, construction and the subsequent 60 years that the plant would be in operation.”
He recalled that in 2007, former President John Agyekum Kufuor set up a committee, chaired by Professor Daniel Adzei-Bekoe, to explore the possibility of Ghana using nuclear energy as an alternative based-load source of power.
This was around the time that Ghana was faced with supply power challenges.
To sustain the natural progression of the country’s technological energy advancement, he noted, subsequent governments had supported this effort to improve the country’s energy security to provide leadership and resources to facilitate the nuclear power programme.
This has given birth to the NPG to become the owner/operator of Ghana’s first nuclear power plant.
He said the NPG Board, under the chairmanship of Mr Fred Oware, was focused on providing relevant resources to build a strong safety culture and resilience management systems that adhered to standards in the planning and development of nuclear infrastructure and related activities across the country.
In addition to electricity generation, nuclear energy, the Minister said, could provide solutions to an even wider range of applications - those innovative nuclear technologies such as small modular reactors would complement existing large reactors to enable deep decarbonization as part of the clean energy transition.
"Nuclear technologies are equally improving people’s lives in many other ways and are supporting sustainable developments," he said.
"Medical, industry and agriculture applications of nuclear technology are in use all over the world, including Ghana.
The affixing of tax stamps on alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages has grown exponentially since its introduction about four years ago.
From an initial 28.5 million tax stams affixed in 2018, the number increased to 38.5 million the following year and 70.2 million in 2020, with managers of the project projecting to affix some 90 million stamps in 2021.
The Ghana Revenue Authority (GRA) said it was also engaging the Food and Beverages Association of Ghana (FABAG) and local manufacturers to pay for the affixing of the stamps on their beverage products at the stamping facilities.
The Ghanaian printing company, Buck Press, and its partner, DelaRue, a British security printing company, are responsible for printing the tax stamps on behalf of the GRA, while Streamline Resources, which is located at the Tema Port, assists companies without the technical capacity to fix the stamps on individual products.
The Project Manager of Excise Tax Stamp at the GRA, Mr Kwabena Apau Awuah Anto, who disclosed this, said the move would reduce the incidence of product fraud and piracy, where importers and manufacturers applied for the stamps for specific products but affixed them on pirated products that had no approval and safety certification from the Food and Drugs Authority (FDA).
Speaking during a tour of the tax stamp facilities at the Tema Port by a team from the Graphic Communications Group Limited (GCGL) last Thursday, Mr Anto noted that the Commissioner General of the GRA had already granted authorisation to some 34 large importers and manufacturers, including Guinness Ghana Limited and the Coca-Cola Bottling Company, to undertake the affixing of the stamps at their factories at their own cost.
The GGCL team, which was led by the Managing Director, Mr Ato Afful, included the Editor of the Daily Graphic, Mr Kobby Asmah; the Director, Marketing, Mr Franklin Sowa, and the Editor of The Mirror, Ms Doreen Hammond.
The team was in Tema to have firsthand appreciation of progress of the excise tax stamp policy and also explore collaboration with the GRA on how to further advance the initiative.
Mr Anto said the excise stamp policy would reduce product fraud and ensure that only wholesome products were allowed into the market space to ensure public health and safety..
Similarly, he said, the policy would ensure revenue assurance and further level the playing field for importers and manufacturers to compete fairly on the market through the payment of appropriate taxes.
Mr Anto said: “What we do here at the Tema facilities and 13 other stations across the country where we have affixing facilities is at no cost to importers.”
Operating the facilities, he said, came with headline costs such as the procurement of the stamps, utility, labour, operational cost and materials such as shrink wraps
He indicated that when the project took off in 2018, the government decided to give a six-month window to supply the stamps for free, but that had continued till date, hence the Commissioner General's directive for the stakeholders to be engaged and sensitised to the need for them to pay.
The engagements, Mr Anto said, would determine whether the GRA would charge the full cost or there would be cost sharing between it and the stakeholders.
“In countries such as Kenya, importers pay for the stamps or they get the products stamped at the point of export. 
Ghana's policy on the tax stamp policy places the responsibility on the affected excise product on the importer or the manufacturer. 
In many countries where similar policies are implemented, manufacturers have affixing facilities at their production units,” Mr Anto said.
On the recent challenges that saw delays and congestion at the facility, which led to an outcry among importers, Mr Anto explained that the Tema facilities were not meant for large volume importers but for people who only imported occasionally.
However, he said, large volume importers, in their attempt to avoid associated costs that came with the affixing, often sent their products to the facilities for stamping, a situation which resulted in congestion and delays.
Similarly, challenges with the stamps after a change in the service provider also resulted in some delays, he noted.
However, engineers worked on the machines to be able to pick the new stamps.
In his remarks, Mr Asmah called on the GRA to intensify education on policies that were periodically introduced into the trade space.
Tax education, he said, was important, since it would ensure compliance at all levels and also ensure that people did not short-change the system.
He commended officials of the GRA and the service provider, Streamline Resources, for taking steps to address the challenges.
The GCGL, he said, would collaborate with the GRA to scale up its sensitisation efforts, having had an insight into the operations of the excise tax stamp policy.
“I believe this is the right time for the GCGL and the GRA to deepen collaboration for the purpose of public sensitisation, so that we can get a buy-in from the public,” Mr Asmah said.
he Institute of Energy Security (IES) has said prices of fuel will appreciate marginally at the pumps. A statement issued by IES indicated that the price of fuel on the local market increased within the window under review.
Within the first pricing window of June 2021, majority of the oil marketing companies (OMCs) increased their prices of petroleum products by 3% at the pump. Based on this increase, the current national average price of fuel per litre at the pump is pegged at GHS5.97 for both gasoline and gasoil.   
For this pricing window, Zen Petroleum, Benab Oil, Cash Oil, Goodness Oil, Top Oil and Frimps Oil sold the least-priced fuel on the local market, according to IES’ market scan.
For the window under assessment, international benchmark Brent crude price averaged $73.98 per barrel, representing a 4.05% increase from the previous window's average price of $71.10 per barrel.
This window’s increase in price has been largely in response to the rise in COVID-19 cases propelled by the Delta variant in parts of Europe and amid warnings of a dense outbreak in the United States. 
For the first time in two years, the price of Brent reached the $75-mark at the end of the pricing window. The global crude demand is rebounding as the summer driving season begins and economies reopen from restrictions in mobility.
This is particularly the case, as road and airline travel continue to increase.
The increase in Brent crude prices has also been attributed to the tightening of the physical crude supply in parts of Europe, Asia and the Middle East, as a result of the dynamics in spread between the regional benchmarks within the period.
The July 1st OPEC+ meeting to decide on the production policy for August is also expected to offset the markets, as we go into the month of July.
Gasoline and gasoil prices, as monitored on Standard and Poor’s global Platts platform, show that the prices of international commodities gasoline (petrol) and gasoil (diesel) experienced marginal differences within the period.
Gasoline saw an increase in price by 3.47% to close the window at $694.78 per metric tonne from an earlier $671.45 per metric tonne in the previous window.
Gasoil price also increased by 3.53% to close trading at $597.30 per metric tonne from the earlier window's price of $576.89 per metric tonne. 
Data collated by IES’ Economic Desk from the Foreign Exchange (Forex) market shows the cedi maintained its stability, still trading at GH¢5.77 to the US dollar.
South Africa has been added to Nigeria’s ‘red list’ of countries for arriving passengers. Nigeria took the decision because of the covid19 Delta variant in South Africa.
Travelers who visited South Africa in the past 14 days are now banned from entering Nigeria. 
Nigerian passport holders and residents coming from South Africa have to undergo a seven-day quarantine.
Brazil and Turkey are also on the list.
The killing of Kaaka Mohammed is unfortunate and regrettable. 
My condolence to the family and may his soul Rest In Peace. 
But quickly, some have started pointing accusing fingers at the current regime with others expressing the hope that this shouldn’t be state-sponsored. 
This is also not too good, as it would not allow proper investigations to be undertaken. 
Looking at the official government responses to the “Fix The Country”, agitation, I doubt whether this killing may be sanctioned by the state, even though I am also very much aware that, in our kind of nauseating politics, everything may be possible, including turning a man into a woman and vice versa. 
Government met the agitators to try and calm them down. 
Later, the agitations compelled, at least, two pressers to explain what government is doing to fix the country.
But of course, there are the hawks within the regime, who demonstrated intolerance by calling the bluff of the agitators and asking them to first fix themselves. 
Then, we have our Police Service, that typically tried to frustrate the intentions of the agitators to demonstrate, using very nonsensical explanations of Covid as basis, when they could not prevent or disperse the mammoth crowd at Sir John’s funeral. 
These things make any attempt to link the state to abuses, including murder of an agitator, easy and plausible, even though skepticisms can be entertained because of the absence of watertight evidence.
We must also know, and not be oblivious of the fact that sometimes, our nasty and very dirty politics may push individuals outside government, to carry out such abuses, just for the purposes of deepening agitations and making governments unpopular. 
Again, there is no evidence to support this, in the case of Kaaka’s death. 
But as we analyze the situation, through the lenses of fairness and objectivity, we must do so broadly, to cover all probabilities.
For the ignorant and unprofessional soldiers who went to kill two more human beings, I won’t blame them too much. 
We must blame their mode of recruitment and training. 
Regimes would continue to suffer even more monumental embarrassments from unprofessional security forces, so long as recruitments into these agencies are politicized and based not on meritocracy was part of the 2000 Mobrowa Struggle and I played an active role, sometimes as the “Divine Drummer” for our group. 
We saw the professional manner with which the police and the soldiers handled us even when they had to physically stop us for being unruly. 
Who squats to shoot when demonstrations are on going? 
What was he aiming at? Human being or “beela”? 
Is that how to shoot to disperse? 
How was this soldier recruited? 
Who hired him? Who trained him? 
He is indeed a square peg in a round hole, wearing a military camouflage attire. 
Elsewhere, I am touting our democratic credentials to some scholars and African leaders. 
But behind the scenes, they are pointing these abuses to contradict my claims about Ghana’s drive towards democratic maturity. 
The point is, the kind of unbridled hawkish-intolerance exhibited by some elements within regimes and the childish manner with which our security agencies act in dealing with demonstrators, constitute a severe blot on the maturation of our democratization process. 
Are Ghanaian demonstrators immune to tear-gas? 
How about the hot water canons and rubber billets? 
Government may want to fire some security heads to send a certain signal that would compel and elicit highly professional conduct of our security agencies when it comes to crowd management and dealing with demonstrators. Government may also want to send top security brass to school again for them to be socialized in the dogmas of the kind of relational competence they need, to talk agitators out of demonstration, if need be, rather than the very cheap and democratically infantile way of quickly running to court, to seek injunction. 
This only annoys and presents a needless potential recipe for revolt.  
The President may have to personally intervene to give the needed assurances, bring peace and finality to this impasse. 
The security agencies have lost credibility in the sight of the agitators and demonstrators. 
The near-docility of our Peace Council has also created a certain legitimacy deficit that may make the Council ineffective in intervening. Given these challenges, the President’s personal intervention may be helpful and this must be done in a timeous manner.
19-year-old Thomas Amoani, a graduate of the Adeiso Presbyterian Senior High School who was offered a full scholarship by the Ghana Scholarships Secretariat has expressed his appreciation to the government of President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo Addo.
Thomas Amoani, who had eight A‘s in last year’s West Africa Secondary School Certificate Examination was immediately offered a scholarship to study at the prestigious Brunel University in London after a directive to the Registrar of the Secretariat, Mr Kingsley Agyemang.
The 19-year-old boy, from Asuaba, near Adeiso and from a very poor background, will be studying Economics and Business Finance for his bachelor’s degree.
The story of the former student of the Adeiso SHS made headlines after he was interviewed by a news portal. Sharing his story, Thomas Amoani recounted how he used to trek for about 12 kilometres to school.
This caught the attention of His Excellency President Akufo-Addo who immediately asked that he be offered a full scholarship.
During a short media engagement held for him prior to his departure at the Scholarship Secretariat, the Registrar said the honour done Thomas by the President will go a long way to motivate others to also strive hard academically irrespective of their background.
“I foresee a lot of Thomases coming up and I can assure them that the Scholarships Secretariat will be there to offer them the needed support. Thomas’ story should be a motivation to others like him. And I must commend President Akufo-Addo for his swift intervention,” Mr. Agyemang said.
Arriving at the university campus, Thomas Amoani, who could not hide his joy says he is ready to raise the flag of Ghana high and will not let the country down.
“I never imagined I will be given such an opportunity by Mr. President through the hardworking Registrar. I am very grateful for the confidence reposed in me. I will not fail my country Ghana,” he said.
Brunel University London is a public research university located in the Uxbridge area of London, England. Founded in 1966 and named after the Victorian engineer Isambard Kingdom Brunel, it is ranked as the 93rd best university worldwide in the field of engineering and technology, 32nd among European institutions and 11th among British institutions according to THES world rankings.
There is no problem with the Chief Justice, Justice Kwasi Anin Yeboah filing a disciplinary complaint against legal practitioner and Member of Parliament for Bolgatanga East, Dr Dominic Akuritinga Ayine at the General Legal Council (GLC).
According to private legal practitioner and former Member of Parliament for Zebilla, Mr John Ndebugre, the arguments being made by the National Democratic Congress (NDC) and other people against the complaint are issues, which should be dealt with when Dr Ayine appears before the Disciplinary Committee of the General Legal Council (GLC).
"I think he [Chief Justice] was the proper person to initiate a complaint because the statement that Dr Ayine made which resulted in this complaint was that, in summary, his confidence in the independence of the judiciary has been shaken somehow by the manner in which the presidential election petition was handled or determined."
The Chief Justice has reported lawyer Dr Dominic Akuritinga Ayine to the Disciplinary Committee of the GLC for statements he allegedly made during a panel discussion on Presidential Election Petitions and their impact on Africa's Democracy.
Dr. Ayine has been accused of questioning the independence of the Judiciary due to the manner the Supreme Court adjudicated the 2020 presidential election petition.
The petition says Dr. Ayine’s basis for his assertion during the discussion is the Supreme Court's failure to apply the rules of procedure as well as the consistent and continuous dismissal of the petitioner's applications or reliefs.
“These comments are made against the backdrop of the Supreme Court discharging Dr. Ayine on a charge of contempt for similar comments made against members of the Supreme Court during the Election Petition hearing. Dr. Ayine apologized profusely when he appeared before the Court on the Contempt charge and admitted to having made comments which were unbecoming of a Lawyer of his standing and a former Deputy Attorney-General."
Dr. Ayine, in his eleven-paged response to the CJ's complaint, is insisting that his comments did not attack the reputation of the justices who sat on the election petition case.
He insists that his comments were in good faith.
“As I have stated in this response, as a lawyer, I have a special responsibility to engage in criticism of the work of the judiciary. By reason of my training and experience, I am better placed than most of my fellow citizens to point out deficiencies in judgments and in the performance by the judiciary of its core constitutional mandate.”
He further posited that his comments were within the confines of fair and temperate speech.
The main opposition political party, the National Democratic Congress (NDC) at a press conference in Accra on Monday asked the Chief Justice to withdraw his disciplinary complaint against Dr Ayine.
Disagreeing with positions that the Chief Justice should withdraw the complaint and that he has no locus to file such a complaint, Mr Ndebugre said Dr Ayine was not talking about an individual member of the panel or the members of the panel who were just seven. He wasn't talking about combination of them. He talked about the whole judiciary and the Chief Justice is the head of the judiciary and therefore he was the proper person to lay the complaint.
Speaking in a radio interview monitored by Graphic Online on Accra based Citi FM on Tuesday evening (June 22, 2021), Mr Ndebugre said: "I think that there is no problem about the Chief Justice laying the complaint."
Comparing that to what happened in 1996 - the Republic against Mensah Bonsu, Stephen Quarcoo and Tommy Thompson - in that case Mensah Bonsu attacked an individual judge, Justice Abban and therefore he made the complaint and then the Attorney-General took it up from there and prosecuted the matter on behalf of the judiciary or the court.
No problem about CJ filing complaint
"So I think that there is no problem about the Chief Justice laying the complaint.
The other matter is that, Dominic Ayine was Deputy Attorney-General, and he and his boss at that time took people to the criminal court, proceeding to the civil court... so if the Attorney-General approves the prosecution of a person, can somebody say that no, the person was expressing freedom of speech... therefore he should not be sent to court. 
No, you are to go to the court and make your case, and state your case, and say that you were not guilty of the offence charged. 
So in the same measure, the Chief Justice thinks that the statement was untoward so far as the independence of the judiciary is concerned. 
So you go there, all those arguments that are being bandied about now, both by the NDC and Dr Ayine himself are matters that should be at the Disciplinary Committee," Mr Ndebugre added.
Insisting that he does not want to discuss the merits, he maintained that there are two forms, it is like contempt, whiles the matter is still pending, which is you are interfering with the administration of justice if you make prejudicial statements whiles the case is still pending, then after the judgment has been given and you make statements that scandalise the courts, you can be pursued for that.
If you lose a case in court, you can say that you don't agree, "but to say that... I say that I don't want to discuss the merits, all I'm doing now is that I don't agree with the position that because in the view of the political party, he [Dr Ayine] was expressing his right to free expression and therefore the matter should not be pursued. I don't agree."
"The point is that you must go to the Disciplinary Committee and state there that you were exercising your right to free expression, but you cannot say that the Chief Justice cannot make a complaint, he is the head of the judiciary, and you say your confidence in the judiciary has been dampened because of the way the case was handled. So he should go there [GLC], and point out those aspects of the handling of the case that led him to the conclusion that the judiciary in Ghana is not independent."
Asked about the notion that the Chief Justice chairs the GLC and therefore the Disciplinary Committee, is a sub-committee of his court and therefore he was sending Ayine to his own "court" to be tried, Mr Ndebugre replied, "are you saying that those who constitute the Disciplinary Committee are robots, and that they are going to take instructions from the Chief Justice. When you do these things, you don't help the development of our democracy. Freedom of speech does not mean that you can just say whatever you like."
He used the Parliamentary Disciplinary Committee where the legislature has been dragging people there, "have those people not been expressing their views or expressing their rights to free speech. If you go and say that errh! Parliamentarians are all corrupt without any evidence, you will be dragged to Privileges Committee... why are you saying that you cannot be questioned in another forum?
"I'm not saying that the Chief Justice is right or wrong. 
All I'm saying is that the Chief Justice has made a complaint, as far as I am concerned he is the right person to make the complaint because the statement was against the judiciary, the independence of the judiciary, and he is the head of the judiciary and he has to come forward with a complaint. 
The complaint doesn't mean that you have been condemned, you are to go there and make all the arguments that you are making with press conferences and so on, and then the matter will be determined. 
It is only when you go there and there is evidence of bias, that you can start complaining but I think at this stage, it is premature and I'll advise Ayine to try and go to the Disciplinary Committee and make his case, it is in their interest for them to go and prove the Chief Justice wrong."
The National Peace Council (NPC) has initiated measures to deepen national unity by tackling the polarisation of the country in the aftermath of last year’s general election.
According to the council, political polarisation was a major issue that had the potential to bring about a crisis situation, hence the need to nip it in the bud.
The NPC said this at a dialogue for political parties and other stakeholders in Ada in the Greater Accra Region.
The dialogue, dubbed: “Countering post-2020 election violence and building consensus for greater political tolerance in Ghana”, was supported by the Commonwealth Secretariat and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
The objective was to build concensus among stakeholders to strengthen mechanisms for greater national cohesion, political tolerance, peace and nation-building.
Participants included the Secretary-General of the Commonwealth Secretariat, the Rt Hon. Patricia Scotland; the UNDP Resident Representative, Dr Angela Lusigi; the ministers of Information, Mr Kojo Oppong Nkrumah; the Interior, Mr Ambrose Dery, and National Security, Mr Albert Kan-Dapaah.
Others were a Deputy Chairperson of the Electoral Commission, Dr Eric Bossman Asare; a representative of the Inspector-General of Police, some executive members of the National Democratic Congress, the New Patriotic Party, the Convention People's Party, faith-based organisations, traditional rulers and civil society organisations.
Mr Dery said notwithstanding the security strategies that were put in place ahead of the December general election, there were still some pockets of violent incidents which claimed some lives and led to the destruction to property.
He said 32 violent incidents were recorded by the police in five constituencies across the country, out of which six persons died.
Mr Dery said the government would not relent in its effort to get those behind the disturbances to face prosecution.
For his part, Mr Kan-Dapaah said political tolerance and consensus building remained critical ingredients for the social, economic and political advancement of the country.
The Rt Hon. Scotland commended the people of Ghana for the peaceful manner in which they engaged in political discourse in the country, which she said was acknowledged by the entire Commonwealth family.
According to her, Ghana had historically led the way in democracy, which she said was "a heavy burden on the people’s shoulders, but it’s a burden that the people have carried with pride. We have always hoped in Ghana".
She, however, called for the inclusion of more women and the youth in policy formulation in the country.
The Chairman of the NPC, Rev. Dr Ernest Adu-Gyamfi, said his outfit was working at strengthening mechanisms for inter- and intra-party dialogue to deepen trust and confidence in key state institutions responsible for elections.
He expressed the hope that the issues discussed would significantly contribute to the healing of wounds created in the aftermath of the 2020 elections.
The Chief Servant of Transeco Minerals and Mining, Mr. Godwin Amarh has constructed a six-unit classroom block at Akyem Ampapatia in the Atiwa West District of the Eastern Region.
The classroom block, estimated at a cost of GH¢295,000 forms part of the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR).
Speaking at the inauguration, Mr Amarh underscored the need to give good and quality education to children at lower levels as it helps to give them strong foundation in education.
He said the role of education in every country’s development cannot be undermined, hence the reason his company prioritizes education.
“We at Transeco Mining and Minerals Company have decided to ensure that children in communities where we operate are exposed to the best of teaching and learning environments at the lower levels of education. That is why we have made education a top priority on our corporate social responsibility.
I’m excited to be back at Ampapatia to commission this school. We all know how important education is to the growth of individuals and the country. In order to have brilliant students at higher levels of education, they must first have a strong foundation that is why we have built this Kindergarten”, he said.
Mr. Amarh said the school is also an appreciation to the chiefs and people of Ampapatia who have maintained a healthy relationship with the company since they started their operations in the community.
Contrary to rumors and wild speculations that government has placed a ban on mining activities in the country, Mr. Amarh debunked the rumours and described it as not just inaccurate but false.
According to him, government has rather introduced new measures, policies and programmes aimed at making small scale mining productive and not destructive.
“Government has not banned activities of miners but rather categorized areas close to water bodies and forest reserves as red zones where no individual or company should mine. So what government is saying is that small scale miners should move away from the red zones. So anyone who does contrary to the directive by government will be dealt with by the laws of the country”, Mr. Amarh said.
He therefore advised small scale miners to go work but ensure that they mine at designated areas.
Mr. Amarh who also doubles as the General Secretary of the Ghana National Association of Small Scale Miners (GNASSM) admonished members of the group to impact positively on communities where they have concessions.
He said small scale miners must work to change the narrative that they are destroyers who only take from communities and give nothing back.
He said although many small scale miners are already doing that, there remains more to be done.
“Our sector employs a lot of people in communities where we operate. We must therefore work assiduously to leave a footprint. I know a lot of our members who have built schools and others have helped communities get electricity. We must push those stories out there to change the narrative that small scale miners only destroy’, he advised.
The Rebecca Foundation has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Abdul Samad Rabiu Africa Initiative (ASR Africa) for a grant of $500,000.
The grant will be drawn from ASR Africa’s annual $100 million Africa Fund for Social Development and Renewal to support the Rebecca Foundation’s education initiative.
Speaking at the meeting, the Managing Director of ASR Africa, Mr Ubon Udoh, commended the foundation for its commitment to the welfare of women and children in the country.
He also praised the foundation for its adherence to good corporate governance and practices which have enabled the foundation to deliver infrastructure and services in the areas of education, health and women’s economic empowerment.
"We did our homework and identified the Rebecca Foundation as one of the most reputable charities in Ghana, which encouraged ASR Africa to support the Rebecca Foundation.” he said.
The Executive Director of the Foundation, Mrs Rebecca Akufo-Addo, thanked ASR Africa for the support to the foundation.
She pledged the commitment of the foundation to utilise the grant to benefit the education of children in the country.
The UK has denied involvement in the arrest and extradition of Nnamdi Kanu, who leads a banned group seeking a breakaway state in south-eastern Nigeria, where the ethnic Igbo people form the majority.
Mr Kanu, who holds British and Nigerian citizenship, was detained on Sunday with the help of Interpol and flown back to Nigeria, according to the attorney general.
He faces treason-related charges in Nigeria, but fled the country in 2017 while on bail.
There has been speculation that he might have been arrested in the UK, where it is believed he was mainly based.
“We can confirm that Nnamdi Kanu was not arrested in the UK for extradition purposes,’’ a British High Commission spokesperson told the BBC.
He is currently in the custody of Nigeria’s secret police after a brief court appearance on Tuesday.
His trial is expected to resume on 26 July.
The 53-year-old came to prominence in 2009 when he started Radio Biafra and broadcast to Nigeria from London, using the platform to call for Biafran independence and urging his followers to take up arms against the Nigerian state.
Five years later, he founded the Indigenous People of Biafra (Ipob), which has since been labelled a terrorist organisation by the Nigerian authorities.
Mr Kanu's initial arrest in 2015 triggered massive protests.
I was excited when I saw the Independence Square being renovated late last year.
The renovation, comprising painting and concrete works, was meant to prepare the Square for the funeral rites of former President Jerry John Rawlings.
The Institute of Directors-Ghana (IoD-Gh) has commended the Bank of Ghana (BoG) for taking significant steps to promote good corporate governance in the country.
It has also called for stronger collaboration between the institute and the bank to help promote proper governance of companies in the country.
During a courtesy by the institute on the management of BoG, the President of IoD-Gh, Mr Rockson Kwesi Dogbegah, eulogised the Governor of the central bank, Dr Ernest Addison, for providing transformational leadership in reforming the financial services sector.
He said the effort by BoG led by Dr Addison had led to a vibrant and resilient banking sector.
A statement from the institute said the visit was to commend the bank for its significant role in promoting the culture of good corporate governance in Ghana and to seek mutually beneficial relationships between BoG and the institute.
Speaking on the strategic projects of the IoD-Gh, Mr Dogbegah said the IoD-Gh is developing a charter aimed at setting standards for the practice of corporate governance in Ghana.
He indicated that the development of a national governance code was another key strategic project to be undertaken by the institute.
He disclosed that the institute had established the ongoing annual corporate governance excellence awards as part of its strategic efforts to celebrate the achievements of outstanding individual personalities and corporate organisations that have represented excellence in leadership and corporate governance and have made significant contributions to the socioeconomic development of Ghana.
He added that the Institute, working in collaboration with key stakeholders, had championed the formation of the Ghana Association of Integrated Thinking and Reporting aimed at stimulating a strategic and sustainable way of value creation and reporting by organisations.
BoG Governor stated that corporate governance played an important role in the financial sector.
According to him, corporate governance breaches, overbearing shareholder behaviour and related-party transactional breaches as some of the factors that led to the failure of some banks in the financial sector and their consequent resolution.
He reiterated the need for the Ghanaian society to uphold good corporate governance practices and pledged the bank’s support for the work of the institute, especially as events in the banking sector have a rippling effect on the Ghanaian economic sector.
Arteta must deliver next season
As I have already mentioned, Arsenal do not intend to sack Mikel Arteta and the club management will back him to turn the Gunners around next season.
No one can say for certain if Arsenal have made the right decision but the club intends to bring in more talented players this summer.
Serious questions are being asked about the manager’s ability and even in his own dressing room players are looking at him and wondering if he is the right man for the job.
At 39 years-of-age Arteta has a reputation, built alongside Pep Guardiola, as a brilliant coach.
However, after seventeen months in charge the fortunes of Arsenal have not progressed and many would argue that the team performances are inferior to those of Unai Emery, the man he replaced and who knocked him out of the Europa League.
Arteta captained Arsenal and was welcomed by the fans as their new champion but they are getting restless and agitated as they watch Chelsea and Tottenham move further ahead.
The Super League disaster will not be forgotten for a long time
but I can tell you that the Kroenke owners are going nowhere
so it is up to Arteta to mend bridges, build a strong team and get his tactics right next season otherwise the proud Gunners could well crash and burn.
De Gea won’t accept being No2
Despite Manchester United goalkeeper David De Gea having a contract until 2023 his agents are testing the waters to see which clubs would be interested in signing him.
I am hearing from inside Old Trafford that despite being on good terms with current No1 Dean Henderson, De Gea will not sit back and accept a role on the bench for much longer.
I am picking up interest from Atletico Madrid, Paris Saint Germain and Real Madrid.
The 30-year-old is arguably at the peak of his career although some inside the club believe he has declined slightly over the past two years.
Manager Solskjaer said, “Goalkeeper departments are a very tight knit group.
They work in preparation, they have different gym sessions, individual sessions to the rest of the squad and they stay together more.
Naturally they create a bond and the spirit in the goalkeeping department has been top.
It’s a healthy competition.”
I am sure the coach is right however if De Gea doesn’t regain recognition for the No1 stitched onto the back of his shirt and is left on the bench in crucial games, I am reliably informed he will move out of Old Trafford.
I take West Brom to bounce back yet again
After one season back in the Premier League we again say goodbye to West Bromwich Albion.
The key to yet another quick bounce back from the Championship will be whether or not fire-fighting manager Sam Allardyce can be persuaded to stay.
He is disappointed to have lost his reputation as never having been relegated with any club and the board at West Brom have a lot of work to do if they want to keep him.
Ainsley Maitland-Niles, Conor Gallagher and Okay Yokuslu will return to their parent clubs after being on loan but Matheus Pereira, Callum Robinson, Hal Robson-Kanu and Karlan Grant can impress in the lower league.
Fastest man at City
Who is the fastest player in the Manchester City squad?
No, it isn’t Raheem Sterling.
Manager Pep Guardiola set up a practice whereby each player had to control the ball and sprint 10 yards.
There are some very fast movers in the City squad but Gabriel Jesus proved he was the fastest.
The best is yet to come from Havertz
Thomas Tuchel has been singing the praises of Kai Havertz and pointed to his two goals recently scored against Fulham.
Tuchel recognises that since Kai arrived at Stamford Bridge from Bayer Leverkusen, things have not gone well for the German.
Moving from a foreign country and having to handle lockdown restrictions made things difficult and of course he caught Covid-19 and had to battle back to fitness.
The upcoming Champions League final and the next pre-season, Tuchel believes, will show the best of the attacking midfielder and forward.
Solskjaer is turning United into winners again
Manchester United might have big problems with the fans actively showing aggression  towards the owners but inside the club there is a new belief, a new harmony and renewed confidence that they can achieve.
The man responsible is Ole Gunner Solskjaer and after speaking with many United staff and supporters this week, everyone recognises that it is time to praise the manager for achieving so much in the last eighteen months.
Solskjaer paved the way to sign Bruno Fernandes and Edinson Cavani and both have proven to be excellent additions to United’s line-up.
Cavani has confirmed that he is staying for another season and it is mainly his belief in Solskjaer which has persuaded him.
Paul Pogba looks settled and happy and his relationship with the manager is at an all-time high.
When United fall behind in a matches these days, they get back up, fight and more often than not they win.
There is one thing to thank out-going Executive Vice-Chairman Ed Woodward for and that is allowing Solskjaer time to succeed in the job, survive the rough patches and turn his players into winners.
Solskjaer is now the most important and the strongest foundation brick of the revitalised United and critics, staff and fans believe this is the beginning of a golden era for the Reds.
Tell-tale sign
Kane thinking about leaving
I noticed a significant silence during the match against Leeds at the weekend.
Harry Kane usually runs as much, if not more, than any other player and constantly barks out orders and instructions to other players to play more effectively.
Against Leeds he was very quiet and more so than I think I have ever seen him.
I suspect this is a tell-tale sign that Harry is seriously doubting his tenure at Spurs and is already looking for a way out.
Wolves desperate for a striker
Nuno Espirito Santos has at last recognised that during the transfer window he must prioritise signing a new striker.
Winger Pedro Neto and midfielder Ruben Neves are the leading scorers which pinpoints the weakness in Wolves strike force.
Fabio Silva and Raul Jimenez are next on the list however Jimenez has been out of action since November after fracturing his skull.
Wolves have 13 goals less this season than last year.
The Wolves board have promised Nuno money to sign a proven goalscorer.
Jimenez by the way will be told on May 18th if he is medically safe to play in the final two games of this season.
He has been training for two months but was banned from heading the ball and having physical contact with his teammates.
Sir Alex praises McTominay
When the great Sir Alex Ferguson speaks about Manchester United he is always worth listening to.
His admiration for Scott McTominay is immense and the master says the midfielder should automatically play in every United game.
“Scott McTominay is now emerging as one of United’s big players,” Sir Alex said.
“When you watch United pick their team for an important game, McTominay’s name is in it.
He’s a good character and a great trainer.
I signed him when he was just a kid of seven or eight years of age
and he was actually a centre-forward.”
What higher praise can a player receive.
Three astonishing football facts…
*Manchester United have not lost an away game in the PL for a year and four months!
*If they do not win their next game, Sheffield United will become the first team since the 1904-05 season to have gone without winning two consecutive games.
Dr Madzorera said the health ministry should also raise awareness about the disease, as well as make phone calls in all parts of the country so that people can call at any time to talk about the disease.
They are also advocating for hygienic hygiene check-ups, rather than waiting for a suspected antibody to take them to the hospital.
Caps United chairman Lewis Uriri says they have resolved the problems facing their club and the striking players have begun preparations for their Castle Premier Soccer League matches.
Speaking to Studio 7, Uriri said the players were given their outstanding bonus money.
But he said last month's salaries would be paid to players soon. He also mentioned that there were some unnamed people who were influencing Caps United players to stop playing football.
Uriri said he had spoken to the players and also said the reason for the delay in paying the players was that things were difficult for everyone in the country and that the real government had not paid last year's bonuses.
Sexual rights activists say abortion laws need to be amended to keep up with the times and to protect the lives of girls and women.
Sayendisa Ndlovu of SayWhat says the public is unaware of the abortion law and says it is important for the government to publicize the law.
Ndlovu told Studio 7 that it was important to amend the law as it was written long ago. He said the law needed to be amended to add other factors that could lead to a miscarriage.
Ndlovu said such factors as mental illness, HIV / AIDS or disability were some of the factors that could be considered for abortion.
Ndlovu also explained that the law as it stands does not limit public hospitals to public abortion services and did not require a child nurse or doctor to abort a person legally.
Ms. Tendaishe Changamire, a civil rights activist under the Right Here Right Now program, has also called for the law to be amended to increase the risk of abortion.
Ms. Changamire says many studies show that young girls are losing their lives through abortions.
Although many young people are pushing for the law to be amended, some older women are opposed to it, saying abortion law should not make abortion more acceptable, saying it will make young people less respectful of life.
The Termination of Pregnancy Act was enacted by a parliament in 1977 before the country gained full independence.
Police have arrested several members of the MDC-T led by Nelson Chamisa as they tried to enter the party's Harare headquarters at Morgan Tsvangirai House.
This came after the capture of the center by the MDC faction led by Ms Thokozani Khupe.
Ms Khupe has been declared by the Supreme Court to hold office following Morgan Tsvangirai's death two years ago.
Police in custody include Chamisa's two deputies, Tendai Biti and Lynett Karenyi Kore, as well as David Chimhini, Lovemore Chinoputsa, Gladys Hlatywayo and others.
The detainees were said to be on their way to the party's headquarters, where they were surrounded by armed police.
Studio7 has not been able to hear from the police how many people have been arrested, and what charges have been leveled against them as police spokesman Paul Nyathi was not answering his phone.
Chamisa's MDC spokesperson, Fadzai Mahere, said he was shocked by the arrests.
The situation in the MDC is tense following a Supreme Court ruling this year that ruled that Chamisa and Ms Khupe's congresses were unconstitutional, and that Congress should be held at a time when Ms Khupe is the caretaker incumbent.
Following the ruling, Ms Khupe fired four members of parliament and the senate, saying the people were no longer representing the interests of their party.
Dismissed are Thabitha Khumalo, Prosper Mutseyami, Lilian Timveous and Charlton Hwende.
Some Zimbabweans in various countries say they were forced to leave the country because of the rule of Robert Mugabe, who they say is ruling with an ax.
A political scientist who teaches at Bergen University in Norway, and a member of the Zimbabwe Yibuya / Mayibuye Zimbabwe organization, Dr Victor Chimhutu, says that although Mr Mugabe was seen as a champion of African unity, one Zimbabwean family did not view him that way.
Dr Chimhutu says Mr Mugabe's alliance with other African leaders is one of the reasons he has gained so much respect from African leaders.
They say Mr. Mugabe will also be remembered for insulting and expressing his views on the West and his criticism of the leaders of countries such as the United States and Britain.
Mr Mugabe allegedly did not beat the dogs and hid the culprit if members of his Zanu PF party defected, or even insulted opposition parties.
Mr Mugabe is expected to be laid to rest on Sunday, although his whereabouts have not yet been announced.
Doctors and nurses working in public hospitals have told the government they will stop working at the beginning of next month if they are not paid before the end of December.
The president of the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association, Fortune Nyamande, who said his organization was affiliated with the Zimbabwe Nurses Association, had written a letter to the government informing them of the move.
Dr Nyamande said he had written to the government informing him of his strike from January 1 next year.
They say they and nurses in government hospitals have taken this step on the grounds of lack of transportation costs as they have not yet received their monthly salaries as well as bonus payments promised by the government.
Dr Nyamande also criticized the government's alleged use of the media to discredit traditional newspapers.
Finance Minister Patrick Chinamasa has already announced that the government will not be able to pay some of its employees this year due to a lack of funds.
"Mr Chinamasa has used the newspapers to announce the change in our pay dates, so we will use the same methods," Dr Nyamande said.
The coaches, who were due to receive their pay on Monday, have been announced on Tuesday, but the general public, including doctors and nurses, are expected to receive their pay on January 5 next year.
But many civil servants who spoke to Studio 7 said they were not confident they would get their money back on the new deadlines.
We have not been able to contact the Minister of Health, David Parirenyatwa, and the Minister of Labor, Priscah Mupfumira, to find out what steps they will take to prevent a strike.
The main opposition MDC party has complained that its members are being harassed by the police.
The Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights says 47 people have been arrested in recent days, mostly MDC supporters and seven other students at Allen Wilson School in Harare for allegedly protesting illegally.
Other detainees include Makomborero Haruzivishe, a former student leader from ZINASU, who appeared in court today, along with his colleague Allan Moyo.
We were unable to reach the police spokesperson, Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi, as their phone was unanswered.
Lawyer Innocent Gonese, the MDC's legal adviser, said Haruzivishe and Moyo would return to court on Monday to discuss the court's decision.
The United Nations World Health Organization (WHO) has declared China that the corona virus, which has killed 233 people in China, has become a global epidemic.
In the last two days alone, about 2,000 people are estimated to have been infected with the corona virus and 9,800 have been infected worldwide in 244 countries.
WHO chief Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that while they were confident of China's efforts to prevent the disease, they feared that if it spread to other parts of the world, it could kill more people.
Health Minister Dr Obadiah Moyo says Zimbabwe is testing more than 200 people from China or countries with a corona virus infection.
People under investigation in Zimbabwe are being held at their home for 14 days.
Former health minister Dr Henry Madzorera says Zimbabwe needs more money to prevent the spread of the disease.
The body of former president Robert Mugabe will arrive in Harare on Wednesday afternoon and his funeral will be announced.
This was announced by the Minister of Information, Ms Monica Mutsvangwa, after a cabinet meeting.
Ms Mutsvangwa said government committees were preparing for Mr Mugabe's funeral.
Asked why it was taking so long to talk about Mugabe's funeral, Mutsvangwa and Foreign Affairs Minister Sibusiso Moyo said it was "unusual" that he would announce his funeral arrangements after the Mugabe family in Singapore arrived in the country.
He said the government and President Mugabe's family were working together.
Meanwhile, King Katizagombo's spokesman, Gibson Jenami, said there was no longer any controversy over Mugabe's funeral as the government, led by Emmerson Mnangagwa, was at the forefront of the process.
Meanwhile, Major General Trust Mugoba, who also passed away last week, will be laid to rest on Wednesday at the Heroes Acre burial ground in Harare.
In other news, the government says 178 Zimbabweans have been affected by the violence in South Africa and that two Zimbabweans have died in the violence.
Moyo said the government was planning to bring the victims home with the bodies.
The government also claims that health workers, including doctors, have been paid an additional 60 percent of their benefits, and today the cabinet has decided that the health and finance ministry will sit down to ensure that the workers are paid fairly.
Health Minister, Dr Obadiah Moyo, has said he will sit down with the finance ministry to ensure that the cabinet resolution is implemented.
Doctors went on strike last week complaining that their salaries were too low.
An organization formed to commemorate human rights activists and former Occupy Africa Unity Square leader Itai Dzamara, the Itai Dzamara Trust, today celebrated International Women's Day.
The ceremony was held in Highfield where women and girls who attended the event were provided with follow-up equipment or sanitary pads and more.
A spokesman for the Dzamara family who is also a member of the board of the Itai Dzamara Trust, Mr Partson Dzamara, told Studio 7 that he saw fit to show love to women this month, the month of his brother Itai's disappearance five years ago.
He said although his brother was involved in politics, human rights and journalism, he did it all out of love and the Itai Dzamara Trust will continue to be kind to him.
He said his organization had launched its operation in the village of Highfields because it was the birthplace of Itai but said they would go elsewhere to help women and the poor with knowledge and experience in many areas including law, education and health.
Among the participants in today's event was Rememberance Zuze, who said that although Mr Dzamara had not yet been found, he was happy with the actions of the organization that monitors his life.
An unnamed girl told Studio 7 that she has benefited a lot today.
Meanwhile, Partson Dzamara has announced that a five-year anniversary rally for his brother abducted by unknown individuals in Glen View will be held on Tuesday in Harare.
He said so far they did not know the whereabouts of his brother or whether he was alive.
He said police, human rights activists, the Zimbabwe Human Rights Commission and others who worked with Itai Dzamara were among those invited to the event.
As the world celebrates refugee day, tomorrow, some Zimbabweans living as refugees in South Africa say there is nothing to celebrate as South Africa is in dire straits.
Some Zimbabweans say South Africa does not respect the agreements it has signed with organizations such as the United Nations in respecting the rights of refugees.
The secretary general of the Zimbabwe Migrant Support Network, Shelton Chiyangwa, told Studio 7 that although refugee day is important, South African refugees are being held hostage.
Chiyangwa said the Zimbabwean family living in South Africa was also the main victims.
He added that his organization was working with Zimbabweans and other countries to help them obtain travel documents
Zimbabwe Exemption Permits vice-chairwoman Gladys Mangwende said her organization was interested in the refugee awareness program but was concerned about the lack of human rights.
The chairman of Human Rights Watch in North Africa, Dewa Mavhinga, says refugee day is important in South Africa as there are many Zimbabweans living as refugees.
Mr Mavhinga went on to urge the South African government to relax the rules, especially in the area of ​​immigration.
Another Zimbabwean, George Manyika, also backed Mavhinga's statement.
Gabriel Shumba, head of the Zimbabwe Exiles Forum, has called on the United Nations, the AU and SADC to take a closer look at the treatment of refugees by SA, especially Zimbabweans.
The Lions also appealed to South Africa's interior minister, Aaron Motseledi, to relax his department's rules so that refugees do not have to struggle to obtain documents.
He urged human rights groups to work with his organization to fight for the rights of all refugees.
One of the refugees, Francis Mukono, said he did not see the importance of refugee day as the situation in South Africa was difficult.
Another refugee, Steven Chiweshe, also said he was unaware of the stabbing.
Mandela Madumise, South Africa's director general of refugee affairs, said his department had applied to the United Nations Human Rights Council for assistance in resolving the problems they were facing in the department.
Madumise said by the end of next month, his department would know what needs to be done to address these issues.
It is estimated that more than three million Zimbabweans have fled South Africa to South Africa, accusing the government of harassment.
But the Zimbabwean government says some people have fled to the countryside in search of better pastures.
Hospital staff, including nurses and doctors, have been on strike for more than 33 days, saying their salaries were not enough to go to work without any hope of a solution.
The situation in public hospitals is tense, with some patients being sent home without treatment.
The situation in hospitals is expected to worsen as the Senior Health Doctors Association has already announced that if the financial issues and strikes of the junior and senior doctors are not resolved by them they will also go on strike. Spokesman for the medical association Dr Aaron Musara told Studio 7 that things were not going well in the hospitals.
Dr Musara said although he had informed the government of his intention to step down through letters to various departments, he had not received a response.
Nurses in public hospitals are not going to work and are demanding that the government pay them their salaries with the US money they received in October 2018 as well as provide them with equipment to protect themselves from illness when they are on duty.
The president of the Zimbabwe Nurses Association, ZINA, Enock Dongo, says talks with the government are a goat's head.
Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association (ZHDA) spokesperson Dr Tapiwa Mungofa also said that the lack of access to health care services by the government has left patients without treatment.
Mr Mungofa also said that at the time the children's nurses went on strike, many of their members were at home as a precautionary measure against the transmission of COVID-19 to self quarantine.
Studio 7 was unable to hear the government's side of the story to address the grievances of health workers as former health minister Professor Amon Murwira was unresponsive to his phone call.
But last week, Mr Murwira announced that he had started a conversation with a nurse. His deputy John Mangwiro also told Studio 7 that they were too busy to speak.
Chairman of the Health Services Board, Dr. Paulinus Sikosana, also said they had been in a meeting on the COVID-19 epidemic and were therefore unable to speak to us.
Health experts also say that if the government does not address the issue of nurses returning to work and also preventing pediatricians from continuing to set themselves on fire, especially now that the country is facing the COVID-19 epidemic that has killed 25 people so far.
Chinhoyi City Council says it is ready to comply with the High Court's ruling on Monday that the council should rebuild buildings that it demolished in the city.
Speaking at a meeting with traders who had their buildings demolished by the Chinhoyi council, the council's secretary, Abel Gotora, said they would abide by the court's order for the council to build commercial buildings which had been demolished by some traders.
But Mr Gotora said the council would not rebuild all the buildings it had demolished, but would only build the buildings that the high court had ordered for the six people who took the council to court.
Tafadzwa Marimo, Emmanuel Ngwaru, Richard Svosve, Pepukayi Marega and Devis Shopo were among those who took Chinhoyi to court.
One of the six, Emmanuel Gwaru, said he accepted the court ruling with great joy as the government had told the councils to clean up the area only, not demolish buildings.
Mr Gwaru said one of his biggest grievances was that he was paying money for the council to build better commercial facilities. Gadzema Councilor Patricia Chibaya said she was pleased with the court's decision as she was in a difficult situation because, on the other hand, as a councilor, she had to comply with a letter from provincial minister July Moyo to clean up the cities, but at the same time. they also sympathize with the people who live by the trade whose markets have been destroyed.
Mr Gotora announced that the council would build a new market for 50 traders at the Gadzema market.
A spokesperson for the Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights, Kumbirai Mafunda, said traffickers were coming to their offices seeking legal representation.
Many councils in the country are demolishing buildings that they say were built illegally.
But traders in various parts of the world are protesting in court what their councils are doing.
Following the Supreme Court ruling on Tuesday as to who should lead the MDC party since the death of Morgan Tsvangirai, many people want to know who the real owner of the Richard Morgan Tsvangirai House or Harvest House is.
The court ruled that Ms Thokozani Khupe should take over the reins of the MDC-T until an election is held within three months.
But the issue of who enters the party's headquarters is a bit difficult as there are two people guarding the building, namely Ian Makone and Reverend Tim Neil, a former head of the Church of the Province of Central Africa or CPCA.
The secretary general of the MDC Alliance, Charlton Hwende, believes that the center is in the hands of the two and that they are currently the only ones allowed to use it.
Douglas Mwonzora, who also claims to be the party's secretary general, has returned to the party in 2014. He also believes that the party is in the hands of Makone and Neil.
But they said they think they will be allowed to work in you. We have not been able to contact Mr. Makone and Mr. Niel to hear their side of the story.
The deputy chairperson of the MDC led by Nelson Chamisa, Job Sikhala, says the St Marys area in Chitungwiza has given birth to leopards which is prompting party supporters to flee their homes and seek refuge.
Sikhala, a former Zengeza West MP, said his party's supporters were being sought by a senior police officer named Jabangwe in the area for his arrest.
We tried to contact Mr. Jabangwe but he did not want to answer our questions.
Studio7 was also unable to hear from a police spokesman. Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi, why the supporters want to be arrested by the police.
But it is alleged that the issue of arrests of MDC supporters was aimed at protesting the party's nationwide protests.
Sikhala, who was arrested last month on charges of plotting to overthrow the government of Emmerson Mnangagwa, told Studio 7 that many people were fleeing their homes for fear of arrest.
More than 90 people were arrested in Harare last Friday in connection with a protest organized by the MDC on the same day.
The MDC wants to protest in major cities in the country but the police are using part of the Public Order and Security Act to ban the party from continuing its protests.
Police have so far banned the MDC from protesting in Harare, Bulawayo, Gweru and Masvingo.
Political analysts say this could also happen in Mutare where the MDC plans to hold a protest on Thursday.
The High Court has suspended Justice Minister Ziyambi Ziyambi and Finance Minister Mthuli Ncube from funding the MDC-T led by Thokozani Khupe under a parliamentary budget law.
High Court Judge Priscilla Munangati Manongwa ruled on Thursday that she had suspended Ziyambi and Ncube from presenting the MDC-T faction, which claims to be the legitimate party, to fund political parties under parliament under the Political Parties (Finance) Act.
The MDC is due to receive R7,500 million in RTGS.
Experts say Nelson Chamisa's MDC has gone to court after Ms Khupe's faction had written letters to banks seeking to remove Chamisa's members from the list of people who were required to sign statements to withdraw money from the party's Steward Bank.
Chamisa's MDC-T deputy spokesman, Luke Tamborinyoka, said he was happy with the ruling.
But Morgen Komichi, who has been claiming to be the party's chairman following a Supreme Court ruling that ruled that Chamisa had not complied with his party's constitution to become MDC leader, said he would take steps to get the money as he was the party's official leader.
But Mr Tamborinyoka said he was entitled to the money as the MDC MPs entered parliament using his name.
But Komichi said Mr Chamisa and others should abide by the law.
Meanwhile, a Harare lawyer, Kudzai Kadzere, said the court's decision could be appealed within 10 days.
Ziyambi told Studio7 by telephone that they could also file their papers in court within 10 days if they want to challenge the ruling as ordered by the court.
We have not been able to speak to the Speaker of Parliament, Jacob Mudenda, or the Minister of Finance to hear his side of the story as he has also been named in the court papers.
Some legal experts say the provisional order was issued by the court to the nominees that if they did not object to Chamisa's MDC case, the court could fulfill its decision to transfer the money to Chamisa's MDC.
This is not the first time the MDC has fought for these funds.
In 2006, after former MDC secretary general Welshman Ncube opposed Morgan Tsvangirai in October 2005 and formed his own MDC, he continued to receive all the MDC funding for the parties, leaving Mr. Tsvangirai, the majority party in parliament, without a single penny.
Another Zimbabwean, Dr Rita Nyampinga, of the Female Prisoners Support Trust, which fights for women's rights in prisons, said she was happy to receive the 2020 International Women of Courage Award.
The award recognizes the heroic deeds of women around the world, and is presented by the United States Department of International Relations.
Dr Nyampinga said she never thought she would receive such an honor, saying she was thrilled to be recognized along with 11 other women from around the world.
Dr Nyampinga says they will be traveling to various parts of the United States to learn about prison conditions so that they can strengthen their work at home.
Dr Nyampinga says their work requires courage and they are happy that others have seen the work they are doing back home.
Speaking at the event, Secretary of State for International Relations Michael Pompeo said the work done by the 12 women is admirable and requires courage.
The program was launched 14 years ago.
Other women who have received this award are from Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bolivia, Burkino Faso, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Syria, Yemen and Zimbabwe.
Mr Pompey said such programs were important as they gave women the opportunity to work for the rights of others around the world.
Speaking at the event, the first lady of the United States, Melania Trump, said she was pleased with the human rights work being done by women around the world.
He said that since they first met the women who have been selected for recognition four years ago, they have continued to meet women who are doing admirable work around the world even though some of them do these jobs and face harassment but continue to do so.
Dr Nyampinga says he started his career as a human rights activist 30 years ago.
In addition to her party, Ms Nyampinga is a board member of the Women's Coalition Of Zimbabwe, Crisis In Zimbabwe Coalition, Women Academy on Political Leadership Excellence and Women And Aids Support Network.
Other Zimbabwean women who have received the award include Ms. Jenni Willaims, Ms. Magodonga Mahlangu, Ms. Jestina Mukoko and Ms. Beatrice Mtetwa.
The health ministry said it had asked South Africa to test whether a Zimbabwean woman from China arrived in the country on Tuesday with a coronavirus infection.
A study conducted in Zimbabwe by China shows that it does not. South Africa's National Institute of Communicable Diseases has the highest level of expertise in northern South Africa to determine if a person has been infected with the coronavirus.
The woman is at Wilkins Hospital in Harare. Infectious disease specialist Dr Portia Manangazira says they expect to know the status of the situation within five days.
The ban on the operation of minibuses and buses under the ZUPCO bus company has caused problems for the lack of transportation, which has led to people gathering at bus stops as the country struggles to spread the Covid-19 epidemic in the country.
Many people are said to be suffering from a lack of transportation, especially in the evenings, which is causing them to squeeze into the few available buses.
The government has enacted a law banning passengers from transporting people during the Covid-19 epidemic as a way to prevent the spread of the virus, stating that only ZUPCO-owned buses are allowed to carry passengers.
But some buses and buses are said to be reluctant to go under the scheme for various reasons including delays in payment by ZUPCO.
On Monday, the private bus operators reportedly held a meeting with ZUPCO officials to try to resolve their grievances, including late payment of their buses.
On Tuesday, the buses were expected to meet with government officials to resolve the dispute.
Studio 7 has not been able to hear from ZUPCO as to what plans are in place to address the shortage of transport.
But the head of the Harare Residents Trust, Precious Shumba, said the government should address the transport crisis as soon as possible before things go awry.
Lions say the government should put police, army or council police at the bus stops in order to enforce a law to protect people from spreading the disease.
They also say that health workers should also be patrolling the bus terminals to check that they are HIV-negative or Covid-19.
Businesses in Bulawayo in conjunction with various city organizations have met with city officials to discuss problems they say are caused by water shortages, which are said to have taken a long time.
The head of the Association for Business in Zimbabwe (ABUZ), Victor Nyoni, said the closure had disrupted the operation of many businesses as their members needed water to carry out their daily activities.
Mr Nyoni said he had been assured by the council officials he met to expect water supply early next week, as the council hopes to complete its work by the end of the week.
The city of Bulawayo is said to have entered its second week without water following a move by the council to repair water pumps at the Criterion Water Works.
This is also said to be due to the declining water levels in the city's main source of water for Criterion and Magwegwe as well as power outages for pumping water.
Mr. Nyoni says it is well known that the city of Bulawayo is over 120 years old, and that machinery and water pipes are old.
He called on the government and the council to take steps to address the problem once and for all.
Studio7 failed to hear the council's side of the story.
The Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association, which represents striking doctors, said it was waiting to hear from President Emmerson Mnangagwa after a meeting with its envoys on Wednesday.
The treasurer of the meeting, Doctor Prince Butau, said he was looking forward to hearing from Mr Mnangagwa any time on Thursday or Friday.
Mr Mnangagwa, who was on leave, returned immediately to try to resolve the doctors' strike.
Things in all public hospitals are said to be in a state of disarray since doctors went on strike on December 1 last year.
But the head of the Community Working Group on Health, Mr Itai Rusike, said the government should address the problem urgently and provide doctors with money to prevent them from picking ants by mouth.
Some Zimbabweans in South Africa have protested at Groote Schuur Hospital in Cape Town, where Deputy President Constantino Chiwenga is being treated, demanding that Chiwenga return to a local hospital for treatment.
Mr Chiwenga was reportedly rushed out of the country over the weekend for medical treatment in South Africa, although Studio 7 could not find any evidence that he was in South Africa's largest hospital.
Media Minister Monica Mutsvangwa and Information Secretary Nick Mangwana declined to comment on the matter on Sunday when contacted by VOA's Studio 7 for Zimbabwe, urging them to arrest George Charamba.
But Studio 7 failed to contact Charamba to find out if it was true that Chiwenga was ill and was being treated at the hospital.
Another Zimbabwean, Carlos Chimbi, who lives in Cape Town, joined other Zimbabweans in the protest.
Chimbi said he was "deeply saddened" that the vice president had violated the rights of people with disabilities in the country as he knew he would seek medical treatment abroad if he became ill.
He said he was happy to be able to deliver his message to the hospital as the head of the hospital had asked to speak to him, although he did not say whether Mr Chiwenga was at the hospital or not.
Chimbi said the head of the hospital had told him that the law did not allow him to talk about patients who would be at the hospital if they were not at the hospital.
Chiwenga angered the people last year when doctors went on strike, saying they were not skilled workers but ordinary workers, and that the government had not taken steps to address the problems in hospitals that are causing people to lack proper treatment.
Groote Schurr Hospital is best known for being the world's first heart-to-heart transplant.
Police have banned the main opposition MDC party from holding a rally tomorrow when the party's leader, Nelson Chamisa, was expected to announce his party's direction and plans for this year.
Speaking after a meeting of the party's Standing Committee in Harare, MDC deputy spokesman Luke Tamborinyoka said police had banned the rally and said they were busy with the reopening of schools.
Tamborinyoka said the meeting would not be held tomorrow because the MDC wanted its supporters to avoid being beaten or attacked by the police.
He said it was clear that the police were trying to attack the party's supporters as they had done when the party planned to protest in all the cities and towns in the country.
He said the conference, which had the theme of Agenda 2020, was to be held at Ms Musodzi Hall in Mbare and would be held on Tuesday next week at a venue to be announced later.
Mr Tamborinyoka said the MDC was tired of being considered a terrorist organization and was considering whether to continue to follow the law or change its policy.
We were unable to hear from Zimbabwe Republic Police, ZRP spokesperson, Assistant Commissioner Paul Nyathi, as their mobile phone was not working.
Independent political analyst Masimba Kuchera told Studio7 that he felt the police were harassing the MDC.
In August last year, the ZRP banned the MDC from protesting in cities and towns across the country, saying it feared the protests would lead to riots as had happened in January.
Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed has been nominated for this year's Nobel Peace Prize. Norway offers this award.
Ahmed was praised for bringing peace between his country and Eritrea after a 20-year war over differences between the two countries.
The first black person to win the award was Albert Luthuli of South Africa in 1960.
Other recipients include the late Nelson Mandela of South Africa, Anwar Sedat of Egypt and Kofi Annan of Ghana.
Other winners include, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, were Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, and the late Wangari Maathai of Kenya, the first black woman in Africa to win the award.
In Zimbabwe in 2011 the late Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai was nominated for a prize although he was unsuccessful.
Dr Pedzisayi Ruhanya, a political scientist at the University of Johannesburg, says President Emmerson Mnangagwa has a lot to learn from Ahmed's leadership style.
Many elephants and other animals are dying of starvation and water in the Hwange National Park, prompting the government to intensify its efforts to reduce the number of elephants.
During a visit to Studio7 in the Hwange National Park area, we saw the bodies of many elephants who have died of malnutrition caused by drought in some areas this year.
Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority (ZimParks) spokesperson Tinashe Farawo told Studio7 that 85 elephants have died since September and more than 200 have died this year due to starvation.
The Pharaohs also said that in addition to the famine, one of the main causes of death is the shortage of food and water, which has led to a reduction in the number of elephants and other animals.
When eating, one elephant is said to need more than 200 pounds [500 kg] of food and to require more than two gallons [200 L] of water.
But now ZimParks estimates that there are more than 45,000 elephants in the area.
Some animal rights activists say the figures provided by ZimParks are false and say they are doing this as a way of getting support to be able to sell elephants.
Advocates4Earth member, Lenin Chisaira, admits that elephants and other animals are starving and malnourished, but he is one of the proponents of ZimParks' lack of transparency.
According to Chisaira, one of the main causes of hunger for animals in the Hwange National Park is the government's decision to allow people to do things such as mining, which they say should not be done in the area.
But Mr. Farawo said he was concerned about the views of animal rights activists who said they did not want to accept the fact that elephants and other animals are increasing due to the good work of his department, adding that the department is open and its doors open to all who want to know the situation in zoos.
Zimbabwe and other northern African countries, including Botswana, say they want the International Convention on the Trade in Endagered to allow them to sell their elephants as the number of animals has increased, which has led to a number of problems, including human and animal poaching.
Thirty-three people have been killed by the animals of the organization this year alone.
At a CITES summit in Geneva, Switzerland in August, the organization rejected a call for the lifting of the ban on the sale of elephants and their ivory.
The head of the Safari Operators Association of Zimbabwe, Emmanuel Fundira, said it was important for CITES and animal rights activists to understand the problems facing Zimbabwe and other countries due to the high number of elephants in these countries.
The Minister of Climate and Tourism, Nqobizitha Ndlovu, told Studio 7 that the government is trying its best to work with other countries to give CITES a new perspective.
But they also said they could take a move called reservation which allows them to export elephants to other CITES countries that have taken the same step.
Hwange National Park opened in 1928 and is the largest national park in the country.
The organization is over 14,000 square miles [14,000 sq km] and at its inception was estimated to have only about 2,000 elephants.
The General Secretary of the Footballers Union of Zimbabwe, FUZ, Paul Gundani, died in Kwekwe on Wednesday afternoon after a short illness.
But it is still unknown how things turned out.
According to FUZ, Gundani died at Topomasi Private Hospital in Kwekwe.
The club also says their absence has left a large gap that will be difficult to close as they have a passion for helping football players.
Gundani, who previously played for Zisco Steel, also played for the Young Warriors, and played for the Warriors at a time when the team was known as the "Dream Team" under the tutelage of the late Reinard Fabisch.
FUZ media officer Marlene Gadzirayi said she was shocked to hear that Gundani had passed away.
"I am very sad as I spoke to them yesterday and we were already planning how to proceed. But I heard today that they are missing but at this stage I do not know what Mr Gundani ate," Ms Gadzirayi told Studio7.
Ms Gadzirayi says the country has lost a great football hero. Ms Gadzirayi also said there were no plans for Mr Gundani's funeral as he was waiting to hear from his family when he would be laid to rest.
The Zimbabwe Football Association (ZIFA) has announced on its website that it is saddened by Gundani's death and will stand by the family in all his funeral arrangements.
ZIFA communications officer Xolisani Gwesele said Gundani's death was a national tragedy and it would be difficult to find a man with a passion for football.
"Peace be upon you Paul Gundani," Gwesela wrote on the ZIFA website.
Former President Robert Mugabe's body could not be flown to his home in Zvimba today as his wife, Grace Mugabe, has fallen ill.
Some relatives say the body is due to arrive in Zvimba on Monday.
As many as 1,000 people have been waiting for President Mugabe's body for a day in Zvimba this afternoon.
A spokesman for the Mugabe family, who is also the grandson of the deceased, Leo Mugabe, said Mugabe's body could not be found today for reasons he said he did not know as he had just been sent by King Zvimba.
Leo Mugabe said the body would arrive home early in the morning.
But King Katizagombo, also known as Gibson Jenami, said the body would not return to Zvimba as expected since Ms Grace Mugabe was ill.
King Katizagombo also said the body will be in the hands of the government until the day it is laid to rest.
But this contradicts Leo Mugabe, who said Mugabe's body would be kept by his family until a high-level grave was completed.
Uncertainty at President Mugabe's funeral procession has left many in a state of shock as to whether or not Mugabe's body will arrive as it is almost 30 days before his burial.
Leo Mugabe said Mugabe's body would remain in Zvimba for a day and then return to Harare where he would be laid to rest.
Leo Mugabe said people had gathered in one place at President Mugabe's home in Harare.
A member of the opposition MDC-T led by Nelson Chamisa who was also expected to die in Zvimba today, Lloyd Tarubwa of Banket, who was abducted and detained for nine months without trial, said they had come to see if President Mugabe was really dead.
The conduct of Mr. Mugabe's funeral has shocked many in the country, claiming that Mr. Mugabe's troubles during his tenure were the cause of his death.
Mr Mugabe passed away in Singapore on September 6 after a long illness.
The Amalgamated Rural Teachers Union of Zimbabwe, or ARTUZ, says one of its leaders, Godfrey Chanda, was abducted by detectives and detained for two hours in Gweru without the public's knowledge.
But Chanda, who is a member of the ARTUZ committee in the Midlands region, has been released after being forced not to hold meetings with coaches in Gweru.
ARTUZ president Obert Masaraure said Chanda's dismissal came as coaches under his two-day strike went on strike for a three-day strike.
Masaraure says some coaching associations are also striking as a way to support their union.
The demonstration ends on Wednesday.
But Masaraure said a meeting would be held after the strike to plan for action.
We have not been able to contact the Minister of Labor, Ms Sekai Nzenza, to find out the government's position on the matter but her mobile phone has not been answered.
FC Platinum's sudden exit from the Caf Champions League has raised many questions about Zimbabwean football.
Although they still have two games left in the competition, FC Platinum will no longer be able to hold Esperance who have eight points, nor will they be able to beat Horoya Athletic Club who have seven points. as they were beaten at home and outside by Horoya which is the first to be watched if these teams finish the games equally on points.
At the moment, FC Platinum have only one point from four games so they are just playing to complete their remaining games in order to gain the respect of another fan of the game Spencer Mushambadope.
Mushambadope says there will be no results for the remaining matches.
Last year, the same team was released in the first round by Angola's Primeiro de Agosto after being beaten at home by Lunda again.
In 2017, Caps United reached the mini league stage of the tournament but failed to reach the quarter-finals after being beaten 4-2 at home by Al Ahli Tripoli of Libya.
The same year, the Ngezi Platinum Stars who were representing Zimbabwe in the Caf Confederation were knocked out of the tournament in the first round when they were beaten by the Angolan Libolo.
In 2016 Harare City who were in the same competition were eliminated in the first round by Zanaco of Zambia after being beaten 2-1 at Rufaro Stadium and then finished 3-1 in Zambia.
This shows that local teams are failing to stand up to other African teams as was the case in previous years when Dynamos competed effectively in reaching the Caf Champions League final in 1998 and the semi-finals in 2008.
What hurts the most is that FC Platinum have only one point in four games, they have not scored a single point, moreover, they have conceded six points in four games.
The question is, if a team is beating all the teams at will in Zimbabwe and they are playing like this in Africa, what does it mean for national football?
Caps United supporter Tinashe Musebi says football has deteriorated to such an extent that there is a need for more reforms, before Zimbabwean teams fall short of surpassing Lesotho, Botswana and Swaziland.
Football commentator Farai Kambamura says Zimbabwean teams are failing to play in Africa because the players who helped them win the league title in Zimbabwe are going abroad, especially to South Africa when they are competing in Africa.
Last year, FC Platinum lost Gerald Takwara, Elvis Chipezeze and Talent Chawapiwa, this year lost to Rodwell Chinyafanere who won the soccer star of the year trophy who went to Baroka.
But John Chikochi, who led the Lengthens team in the Premier Soccer League, said Zimbabwe needed to increase its football competitions in the country so that clubs could pay players a fee that would prevent them from fleeing to South Africa and Zambia.
Currently, Zimbabwe has only two clubs, the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League and the Chibuku Super Cup. The Zifa Cup was last played in 2005.
A football fan, Musa Masepe, says Zimbabwe has no football talent as players are opting to sing or something else as their salaries in football are no longer viable.
If this continues, it will take time for local teams to compete with other African teams.
Elections to represent the Democratic Party in the US presidential election in November are raging following the election of former New York mayor Michael Bloomberg.
Bloomberg, who has become a very rich man, did not run in the by-elections to represent his party in the presidential election, which will be contested by Republican Party spokesman Donald Trump.
Mr Bloomberg announced in November last year that he was joining the party, spending more than $ 400 million on advertising. This money is theirs.
The rich man did not run in the by-elections in Iowa and New Hampshire, nor will he run in the by-elections in Navada and South Carolina, pending the March election, when 14 states will elect a candidate to represent the Democratic Party in the US presidential election.
As soon as Bloomerg put his foot down in the running for office, former members of the party, such as Bernie Sanders, who represents Vermont in the Senate, and Elizabeth Warren, who represents Massachusetts in the Senate, began tearing down Bloomberg's record.
Speaking ahead of a Nevada political rally, Mr. Sanders said that in order for his party to defeat Mr. Trump, it needed someone who could mobilize more people than ever before in American history.
Mr Sanders said Mr Bloomberg was a well-known figure in New York mayor's decision to suspend and search for black people, as well as to Latinos, who were unfairly doing so. He said such a move could not get more people to vote for Mr. Trump's removal in November.
But Bloomerg slammed Mr. Sanders' comments, saying Mr. Sanders, who is leading the polls, has been elected a Democratic Party candidate in the presidential election, which will be with Mr. Trump for the next four years.
A political analyst and Zanu PF member, Frank Guni, said it was clear that the main match was between Sanders and Bloomberg, although it was clear that Sanders now had too many supporters.
Guni says, in his view, Sanders and Bloomberg should run in the presidential election together in order to defeat Trump.
Some candidates in the Democratic Party say; Barack Obama's former successor, Joe Biden; Minnesota senator Amy Klobuchar, as well as former mayor of South Bend in Indiana, and a gay man, Pete Buttigieg.
The Democratic Party has 3,979 delegates, and for a person to be nominated as a candidate for the presidential election, he or she must have 1,990 delegates (1,990).
In addition to the delegates, there are also super delegates so that when the Democratic Convention is held in July in Wisconsin, there should be 4,750 delegates and supervisors, and the person elected at this meeting, should get 2,200 votes. three seventy-six votes (2,376 votes).
Many people go to the banks early in the morning in the hope of making money as a guarantee of the world's largest bank but have ridden a rotten donkey.
A survey conducted by Studio 7 at various banks in Harare, Bulawayo, Chinhoyi, Masvingo, Mutare, Gweru and other cities revealed that no banks have received the new money and many banks have not been able to provide the people with the old one.
Jossam Marwira, one of the bankers, said he had been waiting for the money for a day as he had heard in the news that a new currency would be added.
Mr Marwira said he was particularly concerned about buying money on the streets and said it would be better for people like him to be able to get money from banks free of charge.
A man who buys and sells money on the street who declined to be named also told Studio 7 that he was also looking forward to the new currency but saw nothing.
RBZ, the central bank, recently announced that it would launch new investments in the hope of alleviating the country's financial woes.
RBZ Governor John Mangudya has announced that he will issue a $ 2 gold bond as well as a $ 2.5 bond bond that was expected to come into effect today.
Bankers Association of Zimbabwe president Webster Rusere also said they had not yet checked whether any of the banks had received the money, saying RBZ was the only source of information.
The issue of money laundering is causing controversy in the country, with some saying it will help people who are worried about money while others say it is a scapegoat.
Zimbabweans driving in South Africa have been living in a state of shock following the burning of cars by suspected South Africans who do not want foreign nationals to find work.
South African government ministers for police, Bheki Cele; Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula; and the Minister of Labor, Thulas Nxesi, held a meeting with truck drivers, job seekers and the owners warned to take action against those who are burning the trucks.
Cele warned truckers were on fire that they would be arrested as they were disrupting economic affairs.
But just two hours after they finished talking a truck burned down on the N2 in Durban.
A police spokesman, Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad, acknowledged that another truck had been set on fire.
Over the weekend, 18 trucks, including those feared by other Zimbabweans, were also set ablaze in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng.
The chairman of the Zimbabwe Exiles Forum, Gabriel Shumba, said the trucks had been set ablaze on highways in the SA, prompting the temporary closure of the roads.
Representing South Africa's Zimbabwe Exemption Permits, Edward Muchatuta, said that after the incident, he and other foreign drivers also protested, demanding that the SA government intervene.
One of the drivers, George Nanyika, has called for a dialogue.
Davie Munodawafa, another driver, said he also feared for his life.
Munadawafa went on to say that many drivers do not know their future.
South Africa's police chief, Bheki Cele, yesterday warned that the police would take strict action against those who set fire to the vehicles. This, in turn, is what caused the other side of the coin to stop.
Lions told Studio7 that the incident was a repeat of what South Africans had previously said that foreign nationals should leave SA.
Journalists have also been criticized by Shumba for failing to inform the public about the incident.
Lions went on to say that their organization has written letters to foreign embassies in South Africa, including Zimbabwe, asking them to work together to end the crisis.
Dewa Mavhinga, Human Rights Watch's regional director for North Africa, condemned the incident and urged motorists not to travel at night.
The country's economic woes are prompting Zimbabweans to seek employment in South Africa, which has sparked tensions as South Africans complain of being deprived of jobs by foreigners.
The court has ordered the police not to ban former Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors' Association president Dr. Peter Magombeyi, to go to South Africa for medical treatment following alleged beatings by kidnappers on September 14.
The United States is giving Zimbabwe another $ 42 million. The money will be used to buy food for one million people from next month until May 2020.
Residents of rural Gwanda in Matabeleland South province tell Studio7 that no significant development projects are being undertaken by the government, and that little progress is being made by the private sector.
The President of the United States, Donald Trump, will address the United Nations General Assembly in New York.
The MDC leadership is holding a meeting with Harare city councils to find ways to address the city's water crisis.
In the program The Connection on LiveTalk at 8pm we look at what young people can do to boost the national economy so that young people do not leave their countries looking for greener pastures in other countries where they face violence that affects only foreigners in their home countries.
If you want to join the program, or send a message to Studio7, use the WhatsApp number 001 202 465 0318…
Want to listen to Studio7, catch us at 7pm on 909 am 4930; 6040, and 15460 Kilohertz on Shortwave daily.
You can also hear Studio7 at 6 am - Monday through Friday, on 909 am, 4930, 7270, and 9885 Short Wave.
Zimbabwe on Friday joined the rest of the world in marking International Women's Day, with many women saying they continue to be oppressed and deprived because leaders in the country do not care to promote them to equal opportunities.
Although Zimbabwe has a constitution that binds equality of opportunity between women and men, many of the women we spoke to said there was no need or concern from government officials, political parties, churches or companies to ensure that this happened.
A former member of parliament and lawyer, Ms Jessy Majome, told Studio 7 that women are suffering the most in the country due to the negligence of men in leadership positions.
They say there is a great opportunity for the country to close the gap between women and men if the constitution is adhered to.
The head of the Zimbabwe Women Lawyers Association, Abigail Matsvai, told Studio 7 that today is a very important day and they are using it to encourage leaders in government to adhere to laws that equalize opportunities between men and women.
A member of the Gender Commission, Ms. Tsungirai Hungwe-Chimbunde, told Studio 7 that strong education is needed to make the public aware of the importance of equal opportunities between women and men.
He said his commission was trying its best to reach out to various political parties to give their members equal opportunities in the elections so that more women could run for office.
This year's celebrations are being held under the theme, Think Equal, Build Smart, Innovate for Change.
Ms Majome said in line with the theme, the electoral commission should use these powers to provide equal seats for women and men in the 2023 elections.
Ms. Matsvai has supported these reform groups in the leadership positions.
Ms Majome also said it was important for women to unite and fight their battles together and not be exploited by men.
He said it was clear that many men in office did not want to leave the party, which was why they were fighting women and giving them less opportunities to run for office.
International Women's Day is celebrated annually on March 8 as a way to celebrate women's progress in economic, political and other fields as well as to promote equality of opportunity between women and men around the world.
Government-sponsored celebrations were held in Gokwe in the Midlands region and many organizations also held ceremonies in various locations. MDC leader Nelson Chamisa was marking the day in Chitungwiza.
Other media outlets today, including the Zimbabwe Human Rights Commission, said it was difficult for women to move forward with the current economic situation as no one was giving them a chance.
The Zimbabwe Peace Project has also issued a statement marking the day to protest against human rights abuses, including violations of human rights abuses in January following a nationwide protest.
The Labor Court has ruled that children who are absent from work must return to work within 48 hours as their activities are illegal.
Labor Court judge Rodgers Manyangadze and Lawrence Murasi have given the doctors two days to return to work.
The court also ruled that a dispute between the children's doctor and the government should be referred to a mediator in order to resolve the matter within 14 days.
Former vice-president of the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors' Association, Doctor Masimba Ndoro, said despite the ruling, doctors were not qualified to go to work.
Asked by Studio7 if they were afraid of losing their jobs if they did not comply with the court's order, Dr. Ndoro said employers should take action to get workers back to work.
The lawyer for the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors' Association, Doug Coltart, said he did not agree with the outcome but would look into the reasons.
Coltart also said he had a chance to appeal to the Supreme Court against the ruling if doctors wanted to take action.
Studio7 was unable to hear the side of the health minister, Dr. Obadiah Moyo, along with the Health Services Board,
The doctors went on strike on September 3, saying they had no work to do.
Remaining senior doctors at work also staged a sit-in on Thursday last week complaining about salaries and conditions in hospitals.
The US government says that Cyclone Idai devastated Manicaland province and that the tragedy will continue to affect its people.
Speaking to Studio 7 at the US embassy, ​​Jason Taylor, USAID's director of disaster relief, said that while they were working with other agencies to rehabilitate roads and rebuild damaged buildings, they were now focusing more on food security to save lives.
Taylor said the crisis in Manicaland was so serious that the Zimbabwean government could not do it on its own.
Taylor, who visited Manicaland province with a World Food Program helicopter, where he is investing, said he was shocked to see the mental anguish in the region.
He said the children he saw were unhappy. He said it was important that after the people of Manicaland benefited from such things as food and housing, they should also be helped to regain their composure.
Taylor also said that in Chimanimani and Chipinge they did not see or meet with residents who said they were not getting help because of the political party they support.
USAID has also said it has the expertise to train Zimbabweans to look into the sky to determine when, and where the storms are likely to occur, as well as what steps they can take to prevent the destruction of lives and property if requested by the government.
Since the outbreak of Cyclone Idai, the United States has provided Zimbabwe with $ 2.6 million.
Meanwhile, the government, the United Nations and non-governmental organizations today launched a $ 60 million emergency relief fund for Cyclone Idai.
It is estimated that about 300,000 people need help in Manicaland province, and of these, 129,000 are young children.
In the nine districts disrupted by Cyclone Idai, 113 schools were destroyed, leaving 90,000 students homeless.
The government says more than 300 people are unaccounted for, and another 399 people died in the crash.
This number is expected to rise.
Some patients say they are being treated abroad following a strike by children's nurses who say they fear they may die in hospitals without treatment.
A study conducted by Studio 7 has revealed that some patients are now traveling to other countries such as South Africa, Botswana and Zambia for treatment there following the strike by the children's nurse.
One of the patients we spoke to at Parirenyatwa, Ms Molline Chindove, said she had been coming to the hospital for days for treatment but nothing was moving.
Ms Chindove said she was going to South Africa for treatment for fear of dying of thirst with her legs in the water.
One of her relatives, Fiona Muchabaiwa, said she had no choice but to transport her patient to Zambia tomorrow for treatment, saying it was too expensive.
A study conducted by Studio 7 has revealed that many of the previously closed public hospitals are causing more and more people seeking treatment to leave public hospitals for treatment in private hospitals.
Wilbert Kasanze said he had taken his wife from Chegutu General Hospital to be treated at a private hospital in Chitungwiza.
Kasanze says the daily bus ride from Chegutu where he lives to Chitungwiza is causing his pocket money to run out.
The Health Services Board has announced that the retired child nurses will return to work immediately.
The board also called on all strikers to resign and urged them to re-apply if they still wanted a job.
This follows a statement issued by Deputy President Constantino Chiwenga calling for all striking nurses to resign.
But Zimbabwe Doctors for Human Rights says the dismissal of children by the government as a nurse without a dismissal certificate is illegal.
Football star Lionel Messi, who plays for Argentina and Spanish club Barcelona, ​​says he is breaking up his marriage with his country after failing to win a single trophy.
Messi made the remarks after the Copa America tournament hosted in the United States when Argentina lost in the final to Chile for the second time as Chile lifted the trophy.
Chile defeated Argentina on Sunday when Francisco Silva drunkenly sent Argentine goalkeeper Sergio Romero to the wrong side.
The two teams had drawn 0-0 in front of 82,000 supporters in East Rutherford in New Jersey.
Teams playing in the Copa America come from North and South America.
Three years ago, Argentina lost to Chile in the finals after the teams drew 0-0 again. Messi scored the first penalty and failed. Argentina lost 4-2 on penalties.
Messi then told Argentina's TyC Sports broadcaster that he had stopped playing for Argentina because he had failed to win the trophy despite his ambition.
Messi is 29 years old.
And he managed to win four Champions League trophies with Barcelona. But he has not won a Copa America or World Cup with Argentina.
Some patients in Bulawayo were failing treatment at two of the city's largest public hospitals when a doctor's strike entered its fourth day on Tuesday.
When Studio7 arrived at Mpilo Hospital during the day, some patients were being sent home as they were being treated for serious illnesses such as pregnant women with birth defects.
A resident who identified herself only as Ms Dlamini told Studio7 that she had come to the hospital with her swollen legs and was told to return home as they could not be seen by doctors.
We have tried to hear the situation from the hospital's director, Leonard Mabande, but he said we have spoken to the former chief medical officer, Dr Xolani Ndlovu, who said he could not speak to us as he had a lot of work to do.
At United Bulawayo Hospitals the hospital's outpatient unit or Outpatients Department has been closed and a notice issued by the hospital's chief medical officer, Dr Narcisaus Dzvanga, also indicates that the hospital is only accepting patients who are critically ill.
Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association spokesman Dr Mthabisi Bhebhe said doctors were continuing to strike across the country despite government calls for them to return to work, saying they had not heard from the government.
Dr Ndlovu said the poor state of affairs in hospitals, including the lack of medicines and other facilities, was the main reason for the strike.
Studio 7 was unable to hear the government's side of the story as we were unable to contact the health minister, Dr Obadiah Moyo.
But Dr Moyo's deputy, Dr John Mangwiro, told Studio 7 on the phone that they could not comment on the matter as they were out of the country and the department's secretary, Dr Gerald Gwinji, did not return calls.
Bulawayo Metropolitan Province MP for proportional representation, Dorcas Sibanda, told Studio 7 that the doctors' strike had been going on for some time, adding that it was unfortunate that the lives of many people were being jeopardized by the government.
Government doctors went on strike on Saturday and in large public hospitals are working doctors who have been working for many years as consultants, or consultant physicians.
Former Highlanders player and coach Barry Daka, 71, has died after a short illness.
Their daughter, Lorraine has told Studio 7 that her father passed away today at their home in Barbourfields.
He said they became ill on Sunday when they were leaving a concert at Barbourfields Stadium and he is thought to have suffered a stroke.
The Highlangers team posted a message on Twitter saying they were "deeply saddened" by the death and said they were mourning the loss of their family and others in sports news.
The club says Mr Daka started coaching the team in 1986 and managed to lift several trophies including the Independence Cup, Chibuku Trophy, Rothmans Shield and NetBrew Cup.
Arrangements for Mr Daka's funeral have not yet been announced.
Prominent musician Thomas Mapfumo says he will join other Zimbabwean children who will protest next month in New York at the start of the United Nations General Assembly, which is expected to be attended by President Robert Mugabe.
Mr Mapfumo said it was important for Zimbabweans to show their displeasure with the way things were going in the country as it was everyone's right to do so if things did not go well.
Mr Mapfumo said he would not be playing the guitar during the protest as he wanted to join Zimbabweans in showing the world government, especially President Mugabe, that things needed to change in the country.
"I am a musician but at the New York I will not be singing I will be joining others to protest against the corruption and oppression of Zimbabweans by the Mugabe government which is no longer popular," Mapfumo told Studio 7.
Organizations such as #ThisFlag led by Pastor Evan Mawarire, Tajamuka, Occupy Africa Unity Square and other NGOs and political parties affiliated with Zimbabweans from different cities are expected to join the protest.
Others expected to be at the rally include Patson Dzamara, the younger brother of human rights activist Itai Dzamara, who went missing last year.
The Amalgamated Rural Teachers Union of Zimbabwe (ARTUZ) says there are no talks between the government and teachers on resolving teachers' grievances.
ARTUZ president Obert Masaraure told Studio7 that his organization was unhappy to see students lacking funding for education, while teachers lacked funds to go to work.
Masaraure said many members of his party were writing letters of resignation saying they were looking for other jobs as their salaries were not enough to support their families.
We have not been able to contact the Minister of Education, Professor Paul Mavhima, to hear his side of the story.
As the world marks October as Breast Cancer Awareness Month, the Cancer Association of Zimbabwe says it is deeply concerned about the misunderstanding of some people in the country.
The organization reports that many people who claim to have been diagnosed with cancer, first go to a psychiatrist or a psychiatrist, and then to a specialist for serious illness, making it difficult to treat.
Cancer Association of Zimbabwe consultant Priscilla Mangwiro said it was important for people to go to a qualified doctor if they had the problem.
Ms Mangwiro says it is important for people to be screened for cancer, especially breast cancer.
Ms. Mangwiro says breast cancer is the second leading cause of death for women in Zimbabwe.
Ms. Mangwiro says that since October 1, when it launched its campaign to mark October as Cancer Awareness Month, its organization has tested more than 50 women, and the number will continue to rise until the end of this month.
After hearing about the Cancer Association of Zimbabwe program, a woman, Gertrude Magwaniza, said she took her daughter for a lump in her breast.
Ms Mangwiro says there are many factors that put women at risk of developing breast cancer.
Ms Mangwiro says women need to be monitored for changes in their breasts, and if they do, they should be screened immediately.
Ms Mangwiro says many people think that being diagnosed with cancer means they are dying but there is a lot that can be done to help women live longer.
Ms. Mangwiro says one of the main causes of cancer is eating a diet high in fat and sugar.
Ms. Mangwiro is urging women to take advantage of the October opportunity to get tested for cancer, as well as to be educated about the disease.
More than 5,000 people are infected every year and more and more will see a pediatrician for a serious illness.
The state-owned petrol company Petrotrade says if the government continues to set prices for the purchase and sale of motor fuel, the problem of fuel shortages will not go away.
Responding to a parliamentary proposal on fuel prices, former Petrotrade chief executive Godfrey Ncube said this was only possible if businesses were given the opportunity to buy fuel and sell at their own expense.
Mr Ncube acknowledged that doing so would raise prices but said it was the only way out of the country's long-running oil crisis.
Mr Ncube said waiting for the government's oil supply was slowing down oil prices in the country as they were getting more fuel in the long run.
Mr Ncube pointed out the shortage of fuel purchased by government assistance with the example he gave, saying that in the first six months last year, they sold 50 million liters, but in the same period this year they sold only 36 million liters.
Asked when her department hopes to address the fuel shortage crisis, fire department secretary Gloria Magombo said the problem would not go away if foreign investment was low.
He also said that addressing the issue needs the whole country and not just his department.
Asked whether the plan to use the Smart Card to buy fuel was mentioned by the governor of the central bank, John Mangudya, when he said the card would show the amount of fuel consumed by each car in the garage used to buy the fuel, Ms Magombo said the plan was reversed by the COVID-19 scandal. there was a need to buy in China.
Ms Magombo said she could not say when the plan would be successful, although Mr Mangudya told the committee last month that he hoped by the end of June they would try to use the card to see if it worked as intended.
This has angered a parliamentary committee that has said the fire department is failing to do its job as Ms Magombo also said she had heard from members of the committee today that many petrol stations in the country were selling for US dollars or foreign currency coupons.
The committee said it was "deeply concerned" that many developments in the country are being affected by the shortage of fuel.
Zimbabweans on Saturday mark the 40th anniversary of the country's independence from white supremacy, with blacks and other blacks being enslaved.
The advent of black supremacy raised the hopes of many that they would eventually gain a white supremacy, many of whom had been thrown into the abyss by whites as they took all their good land.
But 40 years after the country gained independence, some of them have said things have gotten worse for them compared to the white supremacy, as they no longer have jobs to support their families.
They say that the economic situation is so bad that it is difficult to know what the future holds.
Health issues are said to be at an all-time low as many hospitals in the country are no longer functioning as expected.
A few who are still working say that they often spend it on the streets protesting in order to earn a living.
The inauguration of former president Emmerson Mnangagwa in 2017, following the military ousting of former president Robert Mugabe, has given the public hope for a brighter future.
But most of them have been celebrating the witch and witch doctor, as they say things are getting worse.
But isn't there any good thing that Zanu PF has done for all these 40 years?
Zanu PF North American regional chairman Regis Charumbira says his party has done much to give land to blacks, regardless of party affiliation.
Mr Charumbira said his party had now completed an investigation into who had acquired more farms than others, and that those who had not yet acquired land, including Zimbabweans living abroad, should be acquired.
But Timothy Muringai, deputy secretary general of the MDC-T in North America, said Zanu PF had failed for many years to fulfill all the demands of the liberation struggle.
They say things have deteriorated for years in economic, health and business closures, leaving many workers on the streets unemployed.
Attorney Ntabazinduna Nhlanhlayamangwe Ndiweni or Lord Felix Ndiweni has appealed to the High Court today to challenge his sentence and sentence him to 18 months imprisonment.
Ishe Ndiweni and 23 others were arrested for breaking the fence of Fetti Mbele who wanted to evict him from Ntabazinduna district.
This follows the alleged rape of Mbele's wife, Nonkangelo Mpengesi.
Lord Ndiweni's lawyer, Dumisani Dube, told Studio 7 that the judge did not value the authority of chiefs in his constituency.
Popular musician Thomas Mukanya Mapfumo says he is looking forward to releasing his new album this month after the company's computer computer crashed.
The company is based in Eugene, Oregon in the United States and is called Tracktown Studios. Doctor Mapfumo told Studio 7 that out of the 15 songs he had recorded, only three remained.
The High Court has ruled that Heal Zimbabwe's president, Rashid Mahiya, has set aside bail to be tried from his home.
Mahiya, who has been in Chikurubi prison, is expected to be released on Friday after police said they could not complete their paperwork on time.
Mahiya's lawyer, who works with Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights, Tonderayi Bhatasara, told Studio 7 that in addition to the $ 1,000 bail bond, the court confiscated Mahiya's travel document and the need for his house and to report to the police twice a week.
"We have accepted the court's ruling because the important thing is for the person to be released and released from detention," Bhatasara told VOA's Studio 7 for Zimbabwe, adding: "
Mahiya is one of a number of people arrested in recent weeks on charges of plotting to overthrow the government after protests erupted over petrol prices.
Speaking to reporters in Harare, the secretary general of the Zimbabwe Medical Association, Sacrifice Chirisa, said he had received a letter from senior doctors or consultant doctors urging them to resign if the government did not address the grievances of young striking doctors.
Chirisa, who also happens to be the chief medical officer, said the workload has increased for senior doctors as junior doctors have been on strike for a month.
Chirisa said that in order to do their job properly, they need young doctors to work alongside them.
Mr Chirisa said the problem of patients in government hospitals was exacerbated by the absence of young doctors and 533 doctors who had been suspended following a move by the Health Services Board.
The general secretary of the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association, Mthabisi Anele Bhebhe, also said he was unhappy with the comments made yesterday by former president Constantino Chiwenga that young doctors were still in school.
Chiwenga, who was appointed by the cabinet to lead the dialogue between the government and the striking doctors, fired the nurses after the strike.
Their actions have been criticized by many who say Mr Chiwenga was using the military on issues that require dialogue.
Young doctors say they want the government to provide them with medical equipment, medicine and protective clothing while on duty as well as an increase in salaries which they say is similar to dog taxes.
But the government also says its coffers are so depleted that it cannot afford to increase them.
We were unable to hear the side of the health minister, Mr Obadiah Moyo, as he immediately attended a meeting with the pediatrician at the time we first went on air.
The Labor Court has rejected the government's request as the government has not submitted any documents in its case against doctors who are not going to work.
Doug Coltart, a lawyer representing the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctor's Association in Labor Court, said the court said there was not enough documentation from the Health Services Board, HSB, and therefore the matter could not be heard legally.
The court ordered the HSB's lawyer to file the missing documents tomorrow, Wednesday.
But doctors have also said that going to court is not the key to getting them to go to work, so it does not solve the problem.
Former vice-president of the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association, Doctor Masimba Ndoro, said his job required him to be on a daily basis and he needed to be paid for this.
The junior doctors went on strike on September 3, saying they did not have enough resources to go to work.
Senior doctors from the Zimbabwe Senior Hospital Doctors' Association also went on strike last Thursday, complaining about poor pay and inadequate medical care.
The senior doctors also wrote a letter complaining about the threats they were making and said it was useless for doctors to go to hospitals without adequate facilities to save patients' lives.
The doctors also criticized the government, saying the money had been increased by 60 percent, saying they did not agree with it.
Meanwhile, two other senior doctors have been suspended without pay by the University of Zimbabwe on charges of joining the strike and influencing others to resign.
Suspended is Dr. Bothwell Mbuvayesango, who specializes in pediatric surgery, with Drs. David Chimuka, an expert in the treatment of heart disease.
Dr. Mbuvayesangano made a name for himself in the country after his successful surgery on twins who were born with their heads together in 2014, while Dr. Wake up to a great deal of heart surgery.
The Zimbabwe Association of Doctors for Human Rights has strongly condemned the suspension of Dr. Mbuvayesangano with Dr. Get up.
We have not been able to hear from the University of Zimbabwe or to hear from the government on the state of health issues.
But a statement from Health Minister Obadiah Moyo acknowledged that doctors had not heeded the government's call to return to work.
Moyo said the government was awaiting the outcome of the court proceedings, after which he informed the state of the situation.
Doctors went on strike on September 3, saying they did not have enough money to go to work.
The government has signed an agreement with a foreign company to assist in the export of coal to countries such as India and Japan.
Speaking at the signing of the agreement with Victoria Consulting, the Minister of Minerals, Winston Chitando, said the government's intention was for the country to have access to coal trading in India and to raise funds for mining.
Chitando said Zimbabwe has an estimated 25 billion tonnes of coal but between 2 and 3 million tonnes are mined annually.
Chitando also said India is the largest importer of coal per year compared to other countries.
Speaking at the same meeting, the president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, said Zimbabwe should take advantage of the good relations that exist between it and India.
Studio7 has not been able to determine which Victoria Consulting company has worked with, and who its executives are.
But former deputy minister of mineral wealth in the coalition government, Gift Chimanikire, said he did not see the need for Zimbabwe to find markets for coal exports, which currently do not have enough coal mined in the country.
An economist, Nyasha Muchichwa, also said he did not see the need for Zimbabwe to find a foreign company that was interested in Zimbabwe's coal markets.
Mr Muchichwa also said it was better to use existing relations with other countries.
The Ministry of Minerals website says Zimbabwe has the best coal, and has 29 coal-mining areas.
Only two companies in the country, Hwange Colliery and Mountain Resources, are the largest coal miners.
Six members of the MDC-T party led by Nelson Chamisa, who were arrested in Harare on Friday, have been released on $ 1,000 bail each from their homes.
Given bail by Magistrate Chancellor Bianca Makwande, two of Chamisa's deputies; Tendai Biti and Ms. Lynett Karenyi Kore; foreign affairs secretary, Ms. Gladys Hlatywayo; Deputy Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Mr Lovemore Chinoputsa; a member of the National Standing Committee, and is the party's deputy secretary general, David Chimhini and Ms Vongai Tome.
The men have been ordered to pay $ 1,000 per person following their arrest yesterday following a dispute over the MDC's Morgan Tsvangirai House.
Ms Makwande said the detainees would return to court on July 24 and remain at the address they had registered with the police until their case was heard.
Speaking to Studio 7 after the verdict, one of the six lawyers, Alec Muchadehama, said the court also ordered the people they were representing not to obstruct the investigation into the case.
Mr Muchadehama also said that although the six were yesterday charged with rioting under the Criminal Law (Codification and Reform) Act, the detainees, who had appeared in court this morning, were returned to the police station where they were charged with violating the COVID-19 Prevention Act.
The six lawyers have also complained to the court about the alleged treatment of the detainees.
Mr Muchadehama said the detainees were not well protected and could not catch or transmit COVID-19 while in custody.
The party's president, Nelson Chamisa, has said he will continue to fight for change in the country despite the arrests of its members
Ms Makwande has denied that the party's deputy youth spokesperson, Womberaishe Nhende, who is being treated at a hospital, should remain in custody.
Mr Nhende was reportedly injured yesterday when he was arrested and taken to hospital.
In a separate lawsuit, Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights alleges that a police officer arrested after comparing President Emmerson Mnangagwa to a used condom was suspended and released on $ 300 bail.
The officer, Shungudzemoyo Kache, will also be tried at his home.
The head of Prophetic Healing and Deliverance (PHD) Ministries, Walter Magaya, has been adamant about his detention in Zimbabwe, saying he is working with other countries to launch an Aguma drug that he says cures HIV / AIDS, cancer and more.
Speaking to Studio7 at the end of a prayer service in Francistown, Botswana on Wednesday night, Mr. Magaya said he would not back down from his plan to arrest him by police in November 2018 after announcing that he had found a cure for HIV / AIDS.
After pleading guilty to trafficking in HIV / AIDS, Mr. Magaya was fined $ 700 in February last year.
But the incident did not deter Mr Magaya, who told Studio7 that they were working with other countries they did not want to name and said they saw Aguma's cure as a solution to the HIV / AIDS problem.
Mr Magaya said HIV / AIDS was a problem in Africa and therefore required all countries to work together to find a solution to the problem.
Mr Magaya said he saw fit to work with other countries because Zimbabwe was not confident that the drug would cure the country's deadly diseases.
However, in the case against Magaya in Zimbabwe, Aretha Medical Company's company was found to be unregistered with the Medicines Control Authority of Zimbabwe, and was reportedly not authorized by the Health Professions Authority to conduct an investigation into whether Aguma's drug was effective.
A doctor at a private hospital in Francistown, Sengaphi Khuzwayo, criticized Magaya for saying he was looking for money.
Mr. Magaya had previously caused controversy in the country after he was arrested for raping another woman, but the case was later dropped by a court after the plaintiffs dismissed the case legally.
The lack of pediatricians in government hospitals has put the lives of pregnant women at risk if they have a problem like the one at Chinhoyi General Hospital.
Ms. Lisa Sibanda is a woman who has suffered from postpartum depression.
Ms Sibanda said her baby, who was still premature, died in the womb when she was delivered on Tuesday, but no doctor was able to help her, saying she had to be helped by a nurse who caused the baby to die.
Ms. Sibanda says the biggest problem has been having their cervix washed so late that it can be detrimental to their health.
Ms. Sibanda says they are also facing water shortages and the toilets at the hospital will not be accessible and they are already collecting rainwater.
Erasmus Zindoga, who brought his wife from Kariba, said he had not received any medical help from a doctor and that a doctor he had seen at the hospital had refused to treat his wife.
Zindoga said he had already rented a car from Kariba to Chinhoyi for the 250km drive as things were not going well at the Kariba hospital.
We have not heard how many women are facing such problems at the Chinhoyi hospital which receives patients from areas including Kariba, Hurungwe, Karoi, Makonde and Zvimba.
Former Mashonaland West health director Tapiwa Dhliwayo says doctors should be on duty throughout the province.
However, she acknowledged that nurses are not the only ones who should treat women who have had a miscarriage, as is the case at Chinhoyi Hospital.
Chinhoyi City Council spokesman Tichaona Mlauzi issued a statement last week stating that Chinhoyi, with a population of 120,000, is facing water shortages due to the three dead pumps being repaired.
The Cancer Association of Zimbabwe urges the public to be screened for breast cancer early and before the disease is serious.
More than 5,000 people are diagnosed with various forms of cancer each year in Zimbabwe, but many of them see a pediatrician for this serious disease.
The organisation's president, Junior Mavhu, says they currently have plans to screen women and men for breast cancer so that they can get help on time.
Cancer is said to be killing more people in the country, especially women, even though it is more common in men.
Another Cancer Center is urging women and men to take advantage of the opportunity in October to be screened for cancer, as well as to be educated about the disease openly as they celebrate World Breast Cancer Month.
The world is looking forward to this month as a time to remind people to be aware of breast cancer and how they can benefit from it.
Ms Mavhu's recommendation is that everyone should be monitored regularly so that the disease can be treated and treated before it spreads. body.
Zimbabwe marked two years on Saturday since the shooting deaths of six people in Harare after scores of people took to the streets to express their displeasure with the conduct of the 2018 elections.
The killings took place around the world as journalists from various countries, who were in Zimbabwe watching the first round of elections for Zanu PF leader Emmerson Mnangagwa, were vying for the presidency following the violent ousting of the party's former president, the late Robert Mugabe.
Mnangagwa was running against Nelson Chamisa of the MDC Alliance, including leaders of minority opposition parties.
Following the shooting, the government was forced to form a commission to investigate the allegations. The commission had former South African president Kgalema Motlanthe as its chairman.
The commission released a statement indicating that the military and police had killed the six, and said the killers should be brought to justice. It also demanded that the government pay the relatives of the victims.
Mr Motlanthe's commission also said the government should send the children of the deceased to school, and that the police and the army should not place the law in their hands when people protest.
Human rights experts say the government has not yet complied with the Motlanthe Commission.
But Information Minister Monica Mutsvangwa said the government was aware of the Motlanthe Commission and had plans to ensure that the commission's commitments were met.
One of the commissioners who drafted the report, Lovemore Madhuku, who is also the chairperson of the National Constitutional Assembly, said his commission had completed its work and it was up to the Mnangagwa government to ensure it complied with the draft.
Madhuku also said his commission had issued an order for the government to compensate the relatives of the victims because the men had been shot by soldiers and police.
Human rights expert and Human Rights Watch's regional director for North Africa, Dewa Mavhinga, says the government is not showing any interest in implementing the Motlanthe Commission Report.
Mavhinga said it had been two years since the report was released, but no soldier had been arrested as recommended by Motlanthe's commission.
Many areas have been vacated after the president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, his ministers, members of parliament and the business community, joined forces with the public to clean up their workplaces and live under the National Clean-Up Campaign launched three months ago.
Mnangagwa arrived at Parirenyatwa Hospital early in the morning with his ministers who helped clean up the hospital's unsanitary conditions.
Speaking after the clean-up at the hospital, Mr Mnangagwa said the program was well received and a good one as it would improve people's health.
He said he launched the day as a way to remind people that this is what they should do every day.
Mr Mnangagwa also said people should get rid of the garbage dump and learn from countries such as Rwanda where people are no longer allowed to spray houses and grass or walk barefoot.
Sports Minister, Kirsty Coventry, and her staff, who started sweeping in Simon Muzenda Street and ended up in Africa Unity Square where they swept with the staff of Meikles Hotel and TM Supermarket.
They said the public was shocked to see them on the street sweeping and people should always clean up their neighborhoods.
Employees of Zimbabwe Newspapers have also taken to the streets around the company's headquarters and the company has also bought bins and placed them on the streets to dump rubbish.
Zimpapers spokeswoman Beatrice Tonhodzayi told Studio 7 that pollution is so prevalent in the area where they work that they have seen fit to work with the government to clean up the city and the country.
He said the company's employees at its offices in all regions of the country had also joined the National Clean-Up Campaign today.
The mayor of Harare, Hebert Gomba, city councilors, and council staff have also swept and collected rubbish in various villages in Harare.
Speaking to Studio 7 after cleaning up trash with OK Machipisa workers at the Machipisa business premises in Highfields, Gomba said he was happy with the turnout today saying the city was clean.
He said although the city's clean-up operation required a campaign, the council was making every effort to keep the city clean.
Mr Mnangagwa inaugurated the day, which is celebrated on the first Friday of each month as a way for people to keep their neighborhoods clean and healthy.
The Ministry of Finance has said it will increase funding as well as bring more high-value money into the country as a way to address the country's financial crisis.
Speaking at a press conference in Harare today, the department's secretary, George Guvamatanga, said it was impossible for them to start by bringing in a significant amount of money which would have cost them two dollars and a dollar.
Guvamatanga also said his department was aware that the country's budget was low and that the government would address the problem.
Asked what steps they would take to address the problem of money laundering, Deputy Finance Minister Clemence Chiduwa said consumers would be asked how they got the money.
An economist with the Labor and Economic Development Research Institute of Zimbabwe, Nyasha Muchichwa, said the government could overcome the monetary policy issue only if it invested enough in the country, including foreign exchange.
Mr Muchichwa also said the issue of arresting money changers would not solve the problem as they would do so for a few days and then resume their activities.
The finance ministry has also acknowledged that funding for the health sector is insufficient compared to the current health crisis but has said it will continue to improve.
Finance Minister Mthuli Ncube also told reporters at the press conference that he was pleased with the steps he had taken to improve the country's economy and progress.
But former finance minister Tendai Biti, one of the three MDC-T leaders, says the country's financial crisis is worsening as the country's central bank, the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe, is doing more than it should be doing, which is costing the country a lot of money. .
Mr Biti, who also chairs the parliamentary finance committee, said the finance ministry, as well as the central bank, should act in accordance with the rules, and in such a way that the country's financial system does not disappear, as did loans from some senior government officials.
But the finance ministry says the public should be aware that there have been too many years of unspent national money in building the country, so resolving the crisis will take time.
Singer Rise Kagona talks about her history in guitar and working with the late Biggie Tembo.
Four children died overnight in China, which is said to be infrequent when nurses are on duty.
An employee who is aware of the situation at the hospital says it is true that the babies died last night shortly after delivery.
Studio7 was unable to hear the side of the officials at this hospital.
Ms Chenai Chihwiti says her father, Mr Langton Chihwiti, died after being denied medical treatment on Wednesday when she was taken to Chinhoyi Hospital from Harare.
Matilda Chimbi of Banquet who was retrieving the body of her brother who died yesterday after being helpless, said her brother had called her to the hospital where they found her dead.
Ms Chimbe says many of the dying people would have survived had they not been treated in time.
More than 16,000 child nurses working in public hospitals have joined a nationwide strike for the fifth day in a row demanding higher salaries.
The government has fired all child nurses who have resigned, saying they still need to apply for a job.
Although the number of people infected with COVID-19 is still rising, many people are not taking precautionary measures as recommended by the World Health Organization, such as wearing masks on their faces.
Although it is clear that the public is transmitting the disease in the country, in bus markets and at banks crowded, or crowded, this makes the transmission of Covid-19 easier.
Studio7 has seen many people who were not wearing masks while meeting with members of the public in the city of Harare.
A Harare resident, Paul Majaira, who was unprotected, said he sometimes forgot to protect himself.
An unnamed man was waiting to withdraw money from a bank in the city when rivals confessed to Studio7 that he was aware that the number of COVID-19 cases in the country was rising.
But he said while he knew that standing up for one's rights was important, the issue of fear of interference was the key to uniting people in a queue.
Simon Zhou, who had been waiting for a bus to go to Mt Pleasant Heights, said they had been in the same place for four hours, which could have infected them.
He said people were not being monitored for temperature or hand-washing when boarding Zupco buses as was the case when the country first opened.
Secretary of Health in the MDC Alliance, and former health minister in the coalition government, Dr. Henry Madzorera, said people should protect their health by following the recommendations of health professionals.
Dr. He also urged residents to stay indoors during the winter.
Deputy Minister of Health, John Mangwiro, told Studio 7 by telephone that more people were being educated about the disease and more people were being tested to prevent the spread of the disease.
Speaking at a meeting of his party's Politburo, the president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, said the rising number of COVID-19 victims would also prompt them to reconsider the ban.
The number of Covid-19 deaths and deaths is not limited to Zimbabwe, as is the case in many countries around the world, which has more than 12 million people, more than 88,212 in Zimbabwe.
Doctors working in public hospitals and several other hospital workers have protested at Mpilo Central Hospital in Bulawayo expressing their displeasure at the alleged abduction of one of them, Doctor Peter Magombeyi on Saturday in Harare.
The doctors, who included members of United Bulawayo Hospitals, had closed the doors of Mpilo Hospital chanting and seized notes expressing displeasure at the abduction of Doctor Magombeyi, who was allegedly abducted from his home in Harare by unknown individuals.
"People are still being killed in this area which is very disturbing and frightening," said Ngongoma.
KwaZulu-Natal police spokeswoman Colonel Thembeka Mbele said Plessislaer police were investigating two murder cases.
No one has been arrested.
Parents frustrated and closed the school
PARENTS were protesting when a car tires broke out in front of Putini High School in Mangweni, Umtshezi.
It is alleged that the parents complained about the poor condition of the children at the school.
It is said that children are cramped in classrooms, and there is no water or electricity.
Spokesman Inkosi Langalibalele Municipality, Sifiso Mdakane, said the community was complaining about the Department of Education's reluctance to build a school.
"The study is being held in a temporary shelter set up by the Department of Education.
The community is not happy about this, "said Mdakane.
Local councilor Nkosingiphile Mpembe said: "In 2010, temporary classrooms were set up, people were given the hope that the school would continue to be built, which has never been done before.
The situation of the children studying is not good, the old water stays in the tanks, it is not suitable for students to drink.
"He said that, after the protest, an inspector arrived who promised that today a team from the Department of Education would come and talk to the parents about the matter.
KwaZulu-Natal education department spokesman Muzi Mahlambi said they had contacted their regional office to deal with the matter.
Couples beaten to death for allegedly stealing
POLICE are searching for suspects who killed a couple by beating them in Shayamoya in Mpumuza, outside Pietermaritzburg, on suspicion of theft.
Londeka Mvelase and Mxolisi Mchunu were allegedly beaten by members of the public, who died on Sunday.
The couple lived together.
They were accused of stealing about R2 500 and a neighbour's cellphone.
The respondent found that even after apologizing, they were not stopped beating and stoned.
Women and men were reportedly present when they were beaten.
A local councilor, Jabu Zondo, visited the area yesterday to reprimand the incident.
Speaking to Solezwe, he said although they were accused of theft, they should not have been killed.
"I'm back in the community.
There are cries of crime, it really bothers us in this area, however it is not allowed for the community to take revenge.
You must call the police and they will arrest the perpetrators.
Based on the information I received, the suspects were accused of shoplifting.
Stability is in place right now, there is peace.
The boy is not local, the woman is local.
I will still be looking for his family, and we will meet with them tomorrow (today) to discuss the matter, "said Ngubo.
KwaZulu-Natal police spokesman Captain Nqobile Gwala said two murder cases had been opened and police were still searching for the suspects.
Efforts by Solezwe to locate the families of the victims were unsuccessful yesterday as their numbers were not available, until press time.
The Guptas were smuggling money to various banks
AFRICAN NEWS AGENCY (ANA) It is estimated that R49 billion was misappropriated by the state, according to Shadow World director Paul Edward Holden, according to an investigation.
The director said this at a commission headed by Judge Raymond Zondo yesterday.
According to him, they found that the amount was R49 157 323 233.
68 was regularly deposited in different banks.
Holden said this testifying to the money that was deposited and withdrawn from various banks.
Leading witness, Advocate Matthew Chaskalson, was questioned by Holden.
Holden told the commission that his testimony was based on reports and how money was being paid to Gupta's businesses.
He alleged that the Guptas smuggled R287 million from the Estina Dairy Farm Project.
The plan was to develop farmers in the Free State.
Holden said the Guptas began smuggling money a year before the Estina program began.
The Free State government began funding the Estina program in June 2011 but the Guptas began smuggling money into the program in May 2011.
"They used the Estina system to hide and smuggle money, before the program started," Holden said.
According to the report, the government paid R287 million to the Gupta family, and the money was deposited in various company accounts to make it look like it was making a profit of R880million between 2012 and 2016.
The commission continues.
A video that shows everything about the death of the Bridegroom
A RELEVANT video has surfaced of the day Lindani Myeni was killed in Hawaii, USA
In the video, the bridegroom appears as he enters a house in Honolulu, wearing a crown and walks in behind two of the so-called couple.
He appears to have gone to the temple near their home.
He takes off his shoes from the temple and apologizes to the two men.
It is said that after about 40 seconds, the Bridegroom was seen leaving the house and apologizing to the couple.
Just then a woman appeared and called 911, reporting a burglary.
The woman told police she said her husband was in their house breaking into the house.
According to the homeowners, nothing was taken from their home.
Proponents of her case have been working to make the actual transcript of this statement available online.
Attorney Jim Bickerton, however, said the court had forced officials to release the video without filtering it.
Police were also asked to provide records of 911 calls on the day of the incident.
In an interview Bickerton had with Mr. William Denselow on eNCA he revealed that when the Bridegroom left the house he was not upset.
"His last words were to apologize until he disappeared," Bickerton said.
In the first video released police appear to the Bridegroom who asked them who they were, who shot him dead as he died in hospital.
He said they did not know Myeni was apologetic and police had the video but called a press conference saying they were attacked unnecessarily.
Bickerton said they would continue to search for the truth so that it could be known what was happening.
It is alleged that a split in the IFP erupted in Melmoth
They accused IFP councilors of harassing security guards who allegedly shot and wounded three members of the public at a party meeting in Thubalethu, Mthonjaneni (Melmoth), on Sunday afternoon.
It is said that the guards blasted by the Mayor dispersing the crowd of public members who said the bha · monarch closed the entrance to the convention hall.
One section of the community blamed the party's leadership for trying to bring them to their knees as they demanded the return of an IFP-fired local councilor.
The meeting was called by the IFP leadership in the King Cetshwayo region to clarify the issue that has divided the community, as last week he protested against the reinstatement of all expelled councilors, including former mayor Bonginkosi Biyela.
A member of the public who was part of the protest at the time of the shooting, who did not want to be named, accused IFP leaders and councilors present by telling security guards to shoot them so that they could not vent their anger.
"We were protesting on the street because we were not allowed to enter the hall because it was full of people from other areas.
The problem started when we detained another member of the public who was trying to force his way through a closed road, and security guards and councilors who were present got the chance to shoot, "said the member.
The IFP leader in Mthonjaneni, who did not want to be named, said members of the public in the area were divided.
"Last week, there was a protest demanding clarification on the dismissal of their councilor from the ward.
A meeting has been arranged for all councilors and IFP regional leaders to provide feedback to the public.
"The problem started when some members of the public stood in line outside the hall, and when the meeting started, they blocked the entrance to the hall, pelted stones at security guards and forced them to shoot because the community was attacking them.
Some members of the public were armed with firearms, "he said.
The meeting was attended by newly elected mayor Mbangiseni Biyela, his deputy Phumlani Ntombela and all councilors in the Mthonjaneni Municipality.
Attempts to get comment from the regional leadership were unsuccessful as their space calls could be intercepted and messages could not be answered.
A spokesman for the municipality, Thami Shangase, said the meeting was not planned by the municipality, adding that the matter was in the hands of the police.
Contacted, IFP national spokesman Mkhuleko Hlengwa said the party would issue a statement on the matter today.
Violence began with the dismissal of Biyela (former mayor) and four councilors, creating divisions among members of the public, especially IFP members in charge of the municipality.
KwaZulu-Natal police spokeswoman Colonel Thembeka Mbele said charges of attempted murder and civil unrest had been opened at the Melmoth police station.
Mbete denies ignoring corruption
FORMER Speaker of Parliament Baleka Mbethe has dismissed allegations of corruption, saying some of it was a matter of debate.
Ms Mbete, responding to questions from a commission of inquiry into state control by a minority, alleging that some members of Parliament were involved in corruption, said in some cases the allegations were uncontrollable, while others seemed to be rumored because knowledgeable people had no evidence.
He even cited the issue of weapons involving former president Jacob Zuma as an example of the fact that he received a letter written on difficult material but did not know from whom it came.
"Chairperson, I know there have been people who have testified here, and the way the ANC is run.
I also know that the speaker has come here and said that you can't just talk about what you hear being said.
"I can speak of the arms case, the case that was postponed yesterday (Monday).
There is a letter placed under the door of my office.
The letter contained shocking and shocking details but was never signed and no one had written it.
Parliament is so busy, I could not take this book without knowing who wrote it and we talked about it.
The problem is who wrote it, that person had to come to me and understand me.
I am trying to answer now that in Parliament we would not be able to discuss the rumors, "Mbete said.
In June 2017, he was asked what he was doing in a case involving the Gupta family.
"I don't remember very well but I know it's about the leak of news affecting the Guptas.
I think by the time those stories came out, we would have called those who wrote them.
Let's see what they have to say about the world around you.
So that we can get an explanation and be able to do our job, "said Ms Mbethe.
They blamed NSFAS for the death of a student
STUDENTS are blaming NSFAS for the death of a student who allegedly died after sleeping for two days outside the entrance of the institution, Durban Tvet College, in Cato Manor, on Saturday.
It is alleged that the deceased, Yonwabo Manyanya (26), a graduate of Electrical Infrastructure Construction, was evicted by his tenants due to rent arrears.
The deceased was forced to sleep two days outside the center because he had nowhere else to hide following his eviction from his residence on Monday.
It was reported on Wednesday that the deceased was not in good health.
His fellow students reportedly told him he had to find a place to hide.
Yonwabo, who is said to have been living in the area, reportedly died on Saturday in the flat where his friend lived in Durban North.
One of the students, who was close to the deceased, who asked not to be named, said they were shocked by what had happened, and criticized NSFAS for dragging their feet in getting funding.
"I am not in a good mood after the avoidable incident.
I want NSFAS to intervene because it looks like there will be more incidents like this as winter sets in, "said the student.
A family member of the deceased, who could not be reached for comment, said they could not speak to the media about the incident.
KwaZulu-Natal police spokesman Captain Nqobile Gwala said no case had been reported.
The financial crisis has also spread to the college's Asherville Campus campus, Sydenham, as more than 50 students protested outside the gates yesterday.
The students told Isolezwe they slept on the street outside the center because they had been evicted from their unpaid accommodation.
Most of the students, who were wearing pajamas, came from as far away as Gauteng, Eastern Cape and Mpumalanga.
Mr Siyabonga Sambu, from Ermelo, Mpumalanga, a third-year Community Safety degree student, criticized the institution and NSFAS for fussing over them when they inquired about their funding applications.
He said since February they had not received any funding, the tenants had been guiding students in employment.
"There is no money for food.
Applicants were provided with transportation costs and a small amount received.
The center is useless and calls for the guards to evict us, "said Sambu.
This was confirmed by Zodwa Mabanga from Johannesburg who said he was living on the street because he had been evicted.
Dr Mthabisi Bhebhe, general secretary of the Mpilo Hospital Doctors Association, said he was unhappy with the outcome and wanted Dr Magombeyi to be found alive. Dr Bhebhe, a former secretary of the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association, also said he wanted his grievances resolved.
Another doctor, Dr Tawanda Manjonjo, who claims to have worked with Dr Magombeyi, said many doctors were now fearing for his life, but added that unless Doctor Magombeyi was found, he would return to work only if his grievances were resolved.
The director of Mpilo Hospital, Leonard Mabandi, said that as far as he knew, doctors had promised to return to work after a short strike.
A man who identified himself as Walter, who claims to have had his wife treated, says that many patients have not been seen by doctors.
Doctors are on strike after Doctor Magombeyi was abducted. Doctors have been out of work for two weeks saying they will no longer be able to afford transportation.
The government says it is drafting a law banning doctors from striking, but human rights experts say this is unconstitutional.
Thousands of people lined the streets of Kentucky here in the United States bid farewell to boxing champion Muhammad Ali who died on Friday last week at the age of 74.
Other celebrities in attendance include former US President Bill Clinton, boxing champions George Foreman, Mike Tyson and Lenox Lewis and Will Smith, a well-known film star.
President Obama sent a message of condolence. A Zimbabwean national living in Louisville, Kentucky, Patricia Chikanga, says the country can learn a lot from honoring deceased athletes.
"I have learned that those who represent the country and die like Muhammad Ali should be honored as we have seen with this boxer. The whole city is full of tourists and locals who have come to mourn Ali. The other day we saw his box coming from the airport. It touched my heart to see that I hope this will be done at home for our athletes when they die, ”Ms Chikanga told Studio 7.
The Zimbabwe Council of Churches (ZCC) says it is deeply saddened by the experience of Matabeleland South, Matabeleland North and Bulawayo districts as they handed out protective clothing to nurses working in church hospitals in the region.
ZCC has mobilized protective clothing to donate to nurses, doctors and other staff in church hospitals in the three districts.
ZCC secretary general, Pastor Doctor Kenneth Mtata told Studio 7 that they found many people hungry and worried which upset members of their group.
He asserted that his confession had been obtained through torture, and that his confession had been obtained through torture.
He said the government should put politics aside and immediately intervene in helping people who are starving.
Dr Mtata said his organization would inform the government of all its findings so that it could assist as soon as possible as many households are suffering from hunger and anxiety.
The Zimbabwean dollar continues to weaken and inflation continues to skyrocket as in 2007 and 2008.
The American dollar is being traded for $ 32 to $ 40.
Food, fuel, and other commodities have become so expensive that some have called for the use of the national currency.
Speaking at a rally in January, the president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, said he had regained control of the local dollar as no country could survive without its own currency.
But the leader of the main opposition party, Nelson Chamisa, also said the use of the national currency would not work.
But an economist, Professor Gift Mugano, says politicians are not the ones who tell the stock market what to do.
The president of the Confederation of Zimbabwe Retailers, Denford Mutashu, also acknowledged the sale of foreign exchange.
The head of the Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce, Chris Mugaga, also said the need to work together for the dollar to work properly.
But Professor Mugano says no dog master has slept in the carrier because even the government has refused to accept the national dollar.
ZCTU secretary general Japhet Moyo also told the employer that things were not going well.
Some economists say the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe, RBZ, is in the process of printing money that could keep the country on the brink of collapse.
But RBZ governor, Dr John Mangudya, says this is a lie.
Zimbabwe started using foreign currency, including the US dollar in 2019, but later returned to using only the local dollar last year.
The Zimbabwe Vulnerability Assessment Committee, ZimVac, estimates that 59 percent of Zimbabweans in rural areas are facing starvation from January to July next year.
But in the past month, only about 1 percent of the population needed food in rural areas.
The worst affected areas are Matabeleland North, Masvingo and the Midlands.
Fewsnet, an organization that monitors food security, also says that many city dwellers need help this year as the country's economy deteriorates.
The people who are most affected by the food crisis are residents of Chipinge and Chimanimani where the Cyclone Idai has been hit by a cyclone.
A Chimanimani resident, Joel Dhumakwezu, says his area is receiving food aid from the World Vision organization after those in need of help were registered with the Red Cross.
But they say the unregistered are facing a terrible famine.
Some Gweru residents say they are worried about the spread of coronavirus or Covid-19 following the protection of the city by some local immigrants.
About 120 people have been detained at Gweru Polytechnic since Friday last week.
As many as 30 other people have been detained at Mkoba Teachers' College since yesterday.
These people are among the Zimbabweans being controlled from South Africa and Botswana.
Media secretary Nick Mangwana tweeted that Mkoba Teachers College could accommodate 500 foreign nationals. They also said Gweru Polytechnic is already full.
Resident Ms Enita Nyati told Studio 7 that they feared the spread of coronavirus because some of these people may have been infected and that these people could flee their protected areas.
But another resident, Nyasha Mahwende, said the people should be treated fairly as they are Zimbabweans and relatives and friends of other people.
They also said that in addition to fearing the spread of the disease, they were also concerned that some of these people could be involved in illegal activities and emphasized the need for strong protection.
Studio 7 has been denied access to the two sites by security officials, who say they need permission from the Midlands regional government office.
We have heard from Midlands Minister Larry Mavima and former provincial medical director Dr Reginald Mhene but when we arrived at his office he was said to be in a meeting.
Experts say that in Botswana and South Africa where they were part of the so-called illegal immigrants they were arrested, which put them at risk of contracting coronavirus.
Gweru Mayor Josiah Makombe confirmed to VOA's Studio 7 for Zimbabwe that the coronavirus or Isolation District Hospital is still under construction.
He urged residents to adhere to the guidelines for preventing coronavirus infection but said they should not be afraid, saying they were confident that those who were diagnosed with the virus could be treated.
People's Democratic Party leader Lucia Matibenga, who is also a resident of Gweru, said it was the government's responsibility to keep the returnees safe and to ensure the safety of all other residents.
The Midlands has not yet infected anyone infected with the coronavirus. But the continued repatriation of Zimbabweans from neighboring countries is causing some to shake their heads in fear of the disease.
The president's office on Wednesday held a meeting with doctors on strike for the first time since the doctors began their strike on December 1 last year.
Some senior doctors and specialists or Registrars and Consultants have also gone on strike on Wednesday. Many people in the country say people are losing their lives because of the doctors' strike.
The president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, returned from holiday on Tuesday to join his predecessor, General Constantino Chiwenga, in trying to resolve the doctors' strike.
Spokesman Nick Mangwana said he believed Mnangagwa had returned to work to help put out the blaze.
On Tuesday, Mr Chiwenga had demanded that doctors return to work.
Senior doctors under the Zimbabwe Medical Association have given the government 48 hours to resolve the issue of junior doctors and have gone on strike.
But Mnangagwa's office held a meeting with the leaders of the Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association, Dr Elias Muzoremba, to hear the doctors' grievances.
In a letter to reporters, the doctors told the president's office that they were being misled by the Health Services Board.
The doctors say they want the government to address the issue of drug shortages in hospitals and other facilities and to provide them with US dollars in exchange for RTGS.
These doctors are currently earning $ 329 a month. But this money comes in RTGS.
But an economics professor at Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University, Professor Gift Mugano, told Studio 7 that the government could not afford the money at all.
We also asked Dr Mugano how since some companies are now charging in US dollars for their products, how can it be improved?
The head of the Community Working Group on Health, Mr Itai Rusike, told Studio 7 that it was important for the government to give the health sector more money in the budget.
Many in the country are also complaining that Health Insurance cards are not working and when buying medicines from pharmacies they are being told to bring in US dollars just to stay home.
The Warriors national soccer team has left for South Africa for the Cosafa tournament.
The team faces two battles in the Cosafa Cup and the Africa Cup of Nations, which they must win decisively starting with the Cosafa Cup on Saturday.
In addition to using the Cosafa Cup as a preparation for the Afcon, Zimbabwe must once again defend the trophy, which it won for the sixth time last year, hoping to strengthen its reputation as a North African football champion again this year.
Due to financial constraints, Zimbabwe has not been able to find teams to play in pre-Afcon qualifiers and Warriors coach Sunday Chidzambwa says Cosafa is the only way to strengthen his squad.
Chidzambwa is also looking to add to his reputation in the Cosafa tournament after becoming the first coach to win the trophy four times since the tournament was launched in 1997.
Chidzambwa won the Cosafa Cup in 2003, 2009, 2017 and 2018.
Other Zimbabwean players such as Tendai Darikwa, Admiral Muskwe, and Alec Mudimu also want to appear in the Cosafa Cup which they have been feeling unaware of.
This year, Zimbabwe has the strongest team in all of the tournament as it is rocking their team heading to Afcon including other players such as Knowledge Musona, and Marvelous Nakamba.
A member of the Zimbabwe Warriors Fan Club, Shingirai Miti, says there is no competition for Cosafa because the trophy has always been Zimbabwean.
Having won the Cosafa Cup, the Warriors are looking forward to the first pass from their rally at the Afcon tournament in which they face Egypt in their first match.
The club's player, Ronald Pfumbidzai, says they are not going to Egypt to add existing teams.
Zimbabwe is in Group A with Egypt, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Uganda where Warriors manager Wellington Mpandare is confident of leaving.
Zimbabwe is leaving South Africa at the end of the Cosafa tournament on June 8 en route to Nigeria on its way to the Afcon in Egypt.
For many athletes, the Christmas holiday season is a time to be with family and friends, while others take this opportunity to do different things. But this year at a time when some are visiting family and friends after a year without seeing each other, FC Platinum coach Lizwe Sweswe and his team are not getting the chance as they are in Cairo, Egypt, in their match against Al Ahly in the Caf Champions League.
This will be FC Platinum's third match in the competition, after being beaten 2-1 by Sudan's Al Hilal in the first leg, losing 3-0 to Tunisia's Etoile duSahel.
Sweswe says they will be at work working in the hope that Christmas will give them the good fortune to win after being beaten in both games. Another football coach, Darlington Dodo of Caps United, says after failing to win the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League trophy, this is the time to make amends where there was no standing. But the head of the Zimbabwe Olympic Committee, Anna Mguni, said they headed to their home to see relatives and friends who had not been seen for a long time. Basketball player, Nyarai Musambudzi, has a similar plan to Ms Mguni's but is heading to Masvingo Triangle coach Taurayi Mangwiro says his workplace is so far away from his family that football has now stopped giving time to his family. This is also the case for former World Cup netball player Ursula Ndlovu, who says he has spent so much time in the camp that he will now be with his family and friends in Bulawayo having fun together. But the chairman of the Zimbabwe Volleyball Association, Ringisai Mapondera, says there is nothing better than a volleyball game at Christmas. Mapondera said he would be gathering with family and friends at his home in Harare to play the game in celebration of this time. There are others like Mapondera including boxer Charles Manyuchi, who says they are taking this time to prepare hard for their next season in anticipation of a strong harvest next year.
The Amalgamated Rural Teachers Union of Zimbabwe (ARTUZ) says it has notified the government that it must resolve its grievances within 14 days, failing which it will go on strike.
The union says it wants teachers' salaries to be in US dollars, or to be paid in the equivalent of five hundred US dollars.
The ARTZ report was presented on Friday in the hands of the government through the civil service, the Public Service Commission and the Ministry of Finance.
Studio7 has not been able to hear from the government side on the matter, as Information Minister Monica Mutsvangwa has not been contacted on her mobile phone.
ARTUZ president, Obert Masaraure, says as coaches, they also want a better life, but it is not happening as they wish.
Masaraure says although the government says it is worried about the economy, it can improve things if it fights corruption in its branches, as well as manages public finances.
Masaraure says much of the government's money is being spent on non-essential services such as foreign trips, car insurance and other things that can be set aside in order to provide better salaries for public servants.
Masaraure says in his view, there is money in the country that can fix the problems, but the problem is that the national treasury is not being managed properly, and they do not see the need to fix things from government officials.
Foreign nationals are complaining about the rising cost of obtaining new passports or renewing existing contracts.
This follows a move by the government on Monday this week to announce that it had given permission to the Registrar-General's Secretary-General to start charging Zimbabweans abroad $ 388 million.
Speaking to reporters, Interior Minister Kazembe Kazembe said his department was aware of the high expectations of people to get their passports as soon as possible, and that people who are struggling to get these documents, especially those abroad, have expired documents.
Kazembe said in order to ensure that foreign nationals have legal documents in their home countries, the government has seen fit to raise the price, and that these documents will be issued immediately.
But some expatriates feel that the government has taken this step to raise foreign exchange.
A passport holder in the country pays an average of $ 53 for the RTGS, while the one who wants to get out within three days is charged $ 250.
Requirements for a passport issued within one day are charged $ 380.
The chairman of the parliamentary foreign affairs committee, Kindness Paradza, said his committee strongly supported the move to raise passport fees as a way to help these people create access to their documents, without compromising their residency in their home countries.
Paradza said many expatriates had heard of the theft of relatives and friends and paid large sums of money for their passports.
Isaac Nyaumba, a Zimbabwean national, said he was thrilled to have the opportunity to meet and be photographed by world-renowned footballer Neymar.
Neymar, born in Sao Paulo, Brazil and his full name is Neymar da Silva Santos Júnior.
Neymar is currently playing for Barcelona's Spanish club along with another footballer, Lionel Messi. He also plays for Brazil, who led the Under-23 team to a gold medal for the first time in the Olympics.
But although many say Nyaumba and Neymar's picture was taken in Victoria Falls, they told Studio 7 that it was taken while working at the Ukutula Conservation Center, near Pretoria in South Africa.
The Mighty Warriors women's soccer team is facing a major game in its history, with the public wanting Zimbabwe to win in order to enter the country's sporting history.
The Mighty Warriors are entering Rufaro Stadium on Sunday in their biggest match since 1980 when Zimbabwe began international competition.
The women's soccer team is facing the Indomitable Lionesses of Cameroon in a match that will determine whether or not Zimbabwe is able to qualify for next year's Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro.
The Mighty Warriors were beaten 2-1 when the two teams met in Yaounde two weeks ago but they only need a 1-0 win to qualify for the World Cup.
After qualifying for the tournament, the Mighty Warriors make it the second team in 35 years to compete in the tournament following the 1980 gold hockey girls.
But the Mighty Warriors go down in history as the first team to compete successfully in the tournament as hockey girls went to Moscow after being invited to the shortlisted teams.
Warriors Fan Club member, Zivanai Moroyiwa, says they are delaying the game saying that the Mighty Warriors will make the public happy by doing what the team or any team has not done in the last 35 years.
Caps United fan Tonderayi Matimura says looking at the Mighty Warriors' performance when the two teams met two weeks ago, they are confident the Mighty Warriors will take control and win again.
The Zimbabwe Football Association has recognized the importance of the public in the game and has arranged for the public to pay a one-dollar fee to watch this important game.
Sports commentator Andrew Rwodzi says more people will be in the stadium as the dollar is a money that everyone can afford to pay to watch this important game.
Mr Matimura said he would also be present at the stadium as the dollar is a cheaper currency than the three dollars that Zifa calls for.
The team's coach, Shadreck Mlauzi, has built a strong team that includes both seniors and juniors and he expects players such as Rudo Neshamba and Rutendo Machingura to set fire to Sunday in front of their supporters.
At the same time the Warriors team will be at Bourfields Stadium where they face Lesotho in the African Nations Championship match which weighs less than the Mighty Warriors match.
The club's coach, Kalisto Pasuwa, sacked three players Hardlife Zvirekwi and Justice Jangano of Caps United and Ronald Chitiyo of Dynamos on sexual offenses but Muroyiwa said the Warriors did not stop small teams like Lesotho.
The Warrriors are hoping to win two games between the two teams to advance to the finals of the African Nations Championships for the fourth time in a row after qualifying for the 2009, 2012 and 2014 tournaments.
But the eyes and minds of the public are on the Mighty Warriors game.
Street vendors in Harare's interior and members of the Tajamuka / Sesijikile movement have joined forces to fight against the city police and the Zimbabwe Republic Police, who have reportedly forcibly evicted them from their businesses.
The same thing happened in the town of Norton, where street vendors reportedly refused to be evicted while selling at Katanga.
Tajamuka / Sesijikile spokesperson, Makomborero Haruzivishe, said some of the street vendors were members of his organization who were constantly harassed by the police.
Haruzivishe said by the time we went on air they were still at the police station to try to determine how many people had been arrested in the incident, but said they were aware of one person.
Harare City Council spokesman Michael Chideme said they had not heard of the incident as they were not in town during the day.
But the government, through the Ministry of Information, posted a message on Twitter stating that many youths had been stoned to death by police.
The government has also said it has video evidence of the teenagers stabbing police officers, which will be used in court to impale the detainees.
We have not been able to hear from the police on the matter.
The Zimbabwe Community in South Africa, an organization representing Zimbabweans living and working in South Africa, says it is deeply concerned about the increase in robberies in Johannesburg's suburbs, which are being perpetrated by suspected Zimbabweans.
The group says the crimes, mainly in Hillbrow, Berea and Yeoville, are home to many foreign nationals, including Zimbabweans, including kidnappers, kidnappers, stabbed and murderers.
Zimbabwe Community in South Africa spokesperson Bongani Mkwananzi said they were planning to meet with the police to raise the issue, and to urge the police to take serious action.
He said February 6, which will be next month, his organization is looking forward to meeting with the police in charge of the provinces to work together to address the problem.
They also say that the police should be patrolling the area, but they are often unavailable, which will lead to thieves and robbers doing Jojina's bidding.
Mr Mkwananzi said many of the victims knew of some of the perpetrators in their own language, so the police who are committed to the crime should be working with Zimbabweans living in these areas.
Others who have spoken to Studio7 are also advocating for the deployment of troops in these areas in order to stop these crimes.
South Africans have long accused foreign nationals of increasing crime, drug trafficking, and prostitution.
Many people say that the year 2019 will mark the beginning of a difficult political and economic year for the country.
The New Patriotic Party (NPP) Member of Parliament (MP) for Dormaa East, Mr Paul Apraku Twum Barimah, has filed an urgent question in Parliament to demand the cost of chartered flights that former President John Mahama used for his overseas travels from 2013 and 2017.
He said the question, which was directed to the Minister of Finance, Mr Ken Ofori-Attah, would help him and Ghanaians to seek data to support ongoing discussions in the public domain concerning presidential chartered flights by the former president.
“I have filed the question to also understand how much it cost this country between 2013 to 2017 when former President Mahama was on series of travels using chartered flights,” he said.
No equalisation
Throwing light on his aim for filing the urgent question, which is currently in the Speaker’s Office, Mr Barimah said his question had no political connotation.
“It is about time we took a decision as a country on chartered presidential flights and we can only take such decision when we know the trend, which must be established from what has been done previously.
“Has there been a precedence? And if there is a precedence, what was done? And is there an official guideline to these presidential travels? So clearly, I do not want to achieve any political equalisation,” he said.
He added: “I only want us to have a proper debate and discourse so that we can make proper references. Today, it might be my government but tomorrow it will be somebody’s government, so if we do not seek proper clarification and end these back and forth travels, we will always find ourselves in this situation,” he stated.
Ablakwa’s urgent question
The Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr Samuel Okudzeto Ablakwa, also filed an urgent question in Parliament demanding that the government explains why President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo did not use the presidential aircraft for a recent trip to France.
According to the National Democratic Congress (NDC) North Tongu Member of Parliament (MP), "It is an outrage and a blatant betrayal for Ghana to own a presidential aircraft in perfect working condition" and charter aircraft for presidential travel.”
He also estimated that the President's trip cost in excess of GH¢2 million.
The Bono East Regional Minister, Mr Kwasi Adu-Gyan, has commended the regional leadership of the New Patriotic Party (NPP) and the National Democratic Congress (NDC) for their cooperation towards peace in the region.
“I am proud and extremely excited to see the NPP and the NDC in Bono East working together peacefully, in resolving the political impasse between them,” he said.
Mr Adu-Gyan said peace created an enabling environment for development to thrive and added that without peace it would be difficult for development to progress in the region.
The regional minister gave the commendation in a statement issued after a forum in Techiman.
The forum was attended by representatives of the NPP and the NDC, representatives of traditional authorities, security agencies, the Electoral Commission (EC), the National Commission or Civic Education (NCCE) and civil society organisations (CSOs).
The forum, which was organised by the National Peace Council with sponsorship from the Commonwealth Secretariat, was on the theme: “Countering Post 2020 Election Violence, and Building Consensus for Greater Political Tolerance in Ghana”.
Topics discussed centred on dealing with election-related violence and resolving election-related complaints and disputes.
Mr Adu-Gyan said Ghanaians ought to be proud of the country being ranked the second most peaceful in Africa by the Global Peace Index Report 2021, and underlined the importance for the NPP and the NDC to collectively help to preserve and strengthen the prevailing peace in the country.
“This achievement is a collective effort of the chiefs, political parties, security services, as well as the Executive, Legislature, Judiciary and the media,” he said.
He gave an assurance that the Regional Coordinating Council (RCC) would ensure the required peace needed for development was maintained.
In a presentation on Electoral Justice, the Executive Secretary of the Bono Regional Peace Council, Alhaji Suallah Abdallah Quandah, said electoral justice played a decisive role in ensuring the stability of the political system in the country.
“The role of electoral justice, although not new, has become recognised as a crucial factor in all democracies, whether emerging or established,” it said and explained electoral justice was a prerequisite for preventing political and election violence.
Alhaji Quandah stressed the need for periodic review of the nation’s electoral justice system to ensure it fulfilled its function of guaranteeing free, fair and credible elections.
The MP for Abuakwa South Samuel Atta Akyea has assured Ghanaians a Nana Akufo-Addo-led government will ameliorate their plight when the NPP takes over power from January 7, 2017.
According to him, Ghanaians will experience economic freedom under the leadership of Nana Akufo-Addo due to prudent economic policies that will be rolled out.
“January 7 will be a new era which is going to bring our prosperity and our freedom, especially economic freedom which Ghanaians are craving. Ghanaians are going to notice that God has saved the country from hardship,” Atta Akyea said during a donation to Asiakwa SOS in the East Akim Municipality in the Eastern region.
He said he is ready to serve in a ministerial capacity should he be offered one by President-elect Nana Akufo-Addo.
Some of the items he presented include seven bags of rice, cooking oils, salt, sugar, milk, drinks and undisclosed amount of money.
Three sisters who slept in their mother’s drinking spot have been found dead at Tarkwa-Nsuta in the Tarkwa-Nsuaem municipality in the Western region.
The three died after inhaling fumes from a generator.
Chief Inspector George Sekyi of the Tarkwa-Nsuta station office said on December 18, he received a call that three children had died in a drinking spot.
He said he and his officers rushed to the scene but were told that the deceased Abena Amos, 15, Arabi Dadzi, 13 and Akaba Dadzi, 7, have already been deposited at the Tarkwa Government Hospital morgue awaiting autopsy.
In an interview with Starr News’ Emmanuel Ohene Gyan Mr. Sekyi said the deceased lived with their mother, who operates the ‘Golden City Kitchen’ drinking spot in the Tarkwa Nsuem municipality.
He said they decided to pass the night in the drinking bar after they assisted their mother to sell beverages.
The station officer said on December 17, there was a power outage as result of a heavy downpour that occurred during the day and  because of that Madam Dadzi put a generator in the bar to enable the deceased have access to light as they  slept. The mother of the girls later found them dead when she went to the shop the next morning.
A fourth sister who was also found unconscious is receiving medical treatment. Police in the area are investigating the incident.
lagbearer of the National Democratic Congress (NDC) John Mahama says he will pursue the Chief Executive Officer for Menzgold Nana Appiah Mensah popularly known as NAM 1, to retrieve held up investment of customers if he wins the December polls.
Speaking at Tarkwa-Nsuaem in the Western Region, Mr Mahama wondered why the Akufo-Addo government does not appear to be interested in confiscating the properties of NAM1 but rather venting their anger on customers.
“What is so special about NAM 1 that Akufo-Addo is shielding him? Why do you unleash the police on innocent customers while NAM 1 walks free,” he fumed.
He assured that his next government will thoroughly investigate NAM1 and his directors and use all legitimate means to retrieve the funds.
he Circuit Court in Accra presided over by Her Honour Ellen Asamoah on September 7 adjourned the case in which Chief Executive officer (CEO) of Menzgold Nana Appiah Mensah (NAM1) has been adjourned to October 1, 2020.
The State had previously on June 24, 2020, filed new charges against NAM 1 at the Accra Circuit Court.
Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Sylvester Asare then told the Court that his directives were that he should hold on to the new charges and the plea taking of the accused.
On July 20, ASP Asare told the court that, they were seriously working to advise the court on the matter.
To this end, he prayed the court for a long adjournment after which they would have been able to advise the court on their intention of prosecution on the matter.
He said when the advice is ready, they will issue hearing notice to the accused persons to appear before the court to to do the needful.
But in court on Monday, prosecutor prayed for an adjournment and it was granted.
The accused person NAM 1 was present in court.
The Circuit Court on July 26, 2019 granted NAM 1 bail in the sum of GH¢ 1 billion cedis with five sureties, three to be justified.
He had pleaded not guilty to all initial 13 charges levelled against him by the State. The state had since amended its charged sheet which is yet to be moved.
He is also to report to the police every Wednesday at 10:00 hours.
He was initially charged with abetment of crime, defrauding by false pretences, carrying on a deposit-taking business without licence, sale of minerals without licence, unlawful deposit-taking, and money laundering.
It is alleged that the accused had taken various sums of money, totalling GH¢1.6 billion from customers.
The surge in the use of Okada for commercial purposes is increasingly becoming worrying.
The police have also indicated an increase in incidents of crime, accidents, and violations of road traffic regulations involving motorcycles.
Without any doubt, the Okada menace is getting out of hand and something drastic needs to be done to inject sanity into its operations.
We have on countless occasions raised serious concerns about the use of Okada.
At this moment, the nation is clearly confronted with the challenge of dealing with the usage of motorbikes and tricycles, especially for commercial purposes.
Parliament in 2012 passed the Road Traffic Regulations, 2012 (L.I. 2180) into law to regulate road transport in the country. 
Among other things, Regulation 128 under sections one to four (Legislative Instrument (L.I.) 2180) outlaws the use of motorbikes popularly referred to as ‘Okada’ and tricycles for commercial purposes except for courier and delivery services. It also directs the licensing authority not to register a motorcycle to carry a fare-paying passenger.
This legislation, notwithstanding, okada and tricycle (pragya) have taken over the transportation system in many parts of the country. 
In the rural communities, the okada and pragya come in handy as the only means of transport to markets, health facilities and other towns, among other places.
For people in the cities, they are able to beat the heavy traffic by patronizing the bikes. 
The bikes also serve as a cheap source of transportation as they are less expensive. 
They also come in handy because of the absence of an efficient and reliable public transport system.
However, many people abhor okada and pragya because of the nuisance they create on the roads and most particularly the lack of respect for traffic regulations.
The high incidence of accidents and fatalities associated with the reckless use of Okada, is also disturbing.
Indeed, many organisations, including the Ghana Medical Association and the National Road Safety Authority, have called for a total ban on their usage as a mode of transport in the country.
This has left the country in a deep-blue sea. 
This is because, despite the existence of the law banning their use for commercial purposes, they are a major source of relief to many Ghanaians.
For us at the Daily Graphic, we think that the country should relook at the law comprehensively and come up with the most appropriate measures that will suit the needs of the population in line with best practice. 
In India, for instance, pragya is a major means of transport but we have not heard of complaints as we have in Ghana. 
So, what can we learn from India and introduce it into our system?
We need to bear in mind that with the increasing rate of unemployment, the okada and tricycle operators see it as a source of income which caters for them and their families.
But as of now, okadas and pragyas are a nuisance and we at the Daily Graphic believe that with education, regulation and enforcement of the appropriate regimes, the operators must be made to conform if it is established that the country cannot do without them.
In reviewing the current law or system under which they operate, professional training, a licensing regime both for the rider and motorcycle/motor tricycles as well an insurance cover to cater for accidents will be most appropriate.
With such a system in place, it will be easier for the Ghana Police Service to enforce the law and also deal with unregistered motorbikes and motor tricycles as well as those involved in criminal activities.
Currently, Ghanaians are divided over the regularisation of these two major means of transport because of their advantages and disadvantages.
The Daily Graphic believes that if we want to have decency on our roads and improve our transportation system, then we have to comprehensively hold the bull by the horn and address the problem now or never.
I don’t recall a happier day in my recent memory in Ghana than last Friday, the Green Ghana day. 
This was the day that we were all urged to go out and plant a tree. 
Since I came back to Ghana 20 years ago and to the realisation that the reality of our country was very different from what was in the Geography books, this was the most successful attempt at doing something to reverse the catastrophic degradation of our lands.
Five million seedlings were made available by the Ministry of Lands and Mineral Resources for us to plant and there was a joyful atmosphere that I hadn’t noticed for a long time.
It might well be that enough Ghanaians had noticed that the one thing that needed our attention more than anything else was the state of the land mass that we call Ghana.
Far more than any potholed road, any dilapidated school, any hospital without beds or any schoolchildren without computers and I daresay, even the worst of any rampaging virus, what we should all get and remain agitated about is the state of our land, the land that had lost its forest cover, the rivers that are drying up, what used to be a wet month of May turning out hot and totally dry.
I haven’t taken a look at the Geography textbooks that are being used in our schools today, but I do know that the characteristics of the land mass of Ghana in the books I used at school certainly do not look like present day Ghana.
We still talk about dense tropical forests, but that is not the reality of our lands. 
We still talk about wild animals but they had been hunted down and their habitats taken over long ago.
The dense tropical forests and wild animals now exist only as part of our language and not part of our reality. 
Even what we thought were forest reserves have been shown to have been hollowed out in the search for gold and other minerals.
Maybe our reality got through to most of us and I am hoping that those who did not take part had very good reasons not to have done so.
To my mind, if anyone or group of people need to be named and shamed in today’s Ghana, it is those who did not bother to go and get a seedling and plant last Friday.
If you see it fit to comment on anything and everything, on things that are going wrong, on unpaved roads, on Free SHS, on the rate of borrowing, on the absence of street lights and even on Supreme Court rulings and you did not plant a tree last Friday, you should be ashamed of yourself, even if you are not named and shamed publicly.
I would suggest though that it is not too late to redeem yourself if you happen to fall in this category.
Planting seedlings and having them grow into the beautiful and majestic  trees that we need to cover our land is a long term undertaking. 
Having planted the seedlings, they need to be tended and nurtured and it takes time and hard work.
Last Friday, it rained in Accra, (and I hear in many other parts of the country) which was enough to make a believer of me, considering how dry it had been.
The seedlings need to be watered regularly if the rains don’t come. Under normal circumstances, a better date couldn’t have been chosen than June 11 for the mass planting, but things aren’t what they used to be with our weather and our land and therefore the seedlings might need more care than they otherwise would have needed.
If you missed planting last Friday, you can still plant one or two and you can certainly help look after those that have been planted.
Cutting down a tree takes so little time, but growing a tree to full maturity to attain its regal and intimidating status takes years.
If we are to restore this land of ours to the ‘dense tropical forest’ described in the Geography books and in the songs of our festivals, then, as President Akufo-Addo said, Greening Ghana will have to become a regular and integral part of our activities.
That presupposes, of course, that we shall stop degrading the lands in the first place, give them some breathing space to rejuvenate and then when we plant, the trees can grow in peace.
I probably also have to declare an interest here. I am a child of the forest, I was born in a forest area, even though the place no longer qualifies as a forest area.
I adore trees, there is nothing that can replace the experience of an afternoon heavy rainfall in a thick forest and the sweet smell that arises from the soil after the rain.
Every child must have the opportunity to experience it and to look up and around trees that are older than their great grandparents.
Another personal declaration of interest is that one of my very favourite people in this world is the Minister for Lands and Mineral Resources, Samuel Abu Jinapor, the Honourable Member of Parliament for Damongo.
Once upon a time when you were appointed a Minister of Mineral Resources, it was a beautiful job, now you are dealing with the degradation of lands, the pollution of rivers and having to burn excavators.
I want Ghana to be returned to a land of thick forests, majestic trees, clean and beautiful rivers and I want it to happen under the tenure of Minister Abu Jinapor.
I couldn’t quite decide what to make of him in that Rangers uniform last Friday but I could certainly see the amount of hard work that had gone into the planning and execution of the project. I am wishing him well and I am hoping that every one of the seedlings that was planted last Friday survives and thrives.
A green Ghana will be a prosperous Ghana.
When it comes to good music, Highlife musician Akwaboah cannot be ignored, but he will easily skip your mind when you are talking about A List musicians in Ghana and that is because he is not in our faces all the time.
However, the musician is not worried that he is not at the top of people’s list. He told Graphic Showbiz that he was not in competition with any musician and not being in the public eye all the time allowed him room to release quality songs.
According to Akwaboah, releasing songs back to back just to help keep an artiste’s name out there did not guarantee sustainability.
“I don’t rush to release songs because I want to take my time and get it right. So many musicians made hits but in just a short time, they were nowhere to be found. I don’t want to be that kind of artiste. I am not under any pressure to release hit songs and anytime I drop something new, Ghanaians just love it.
 “It is always not the best to keep releasing hit after hit. Ghanaians are some way and if they decide not to pay attention to you again, there is nothing you will do to impress them. I prefer to stay this way for the next 15 years than to do hit after hit songs and be forgotten in a year or two,” he told Graphic Showbiz recently.
 The Zimbabwe Republic Police has launched a campaign aimed at preventing violence against women and girls, especially during elections.
Police launched the campaign on Wednesday with the support of human rights organizations, especially women's rights, the Canadian embassy in Zimbabwe, and the National Prosecuting Authority of Zimbabwe.
Speaking at the rally, the police chief, Commissioner-General Godwin Matanga, said the police would not be complacent in matters of violence against women during elections.
He also urged women to report cases of violence or abuse without fear.
The chairperson of the Women's Coalition of Zimbabwe, Sally Ncube, also said she was impressed by the police's commitment to prevent violence against women during elections.
No media source currently available
Some doctors in the country at hospitals such as the West End and Parirenyatwa are refusing to treat people suspected of having coronavirus because they do not have the expertise and expertise.
On Monday, some nurses also protested at Mpilo Hospital, saying they did not have the necessary protection against the disease.
The Ministry of Infectious Diseases in the Ministry of Health, Dr Portia Manangazira, also told Studio7 that a Zimbabwean woman from China had failed to receive treatment in Parirenyatwa.
Parirenyatwa Hospital later investigated the case and ruled that it would not transmit the disease to patients such as coronaviruses, saying such people should be legally referred to Wilkins Hospital and Beatrice Infectious Hospital as a way of trying to prevent other patients and doctors at the hospital from being infected with coronavirus.
The hospital also said it would set up a tent outside the hospital to screen those suspected of having the disease and then refer them to the so-called specialist hospitals.
Harare City Council's chief medical officer, Dr Prosper Chonzi, also said that the West End hospital refused to help a Chinese woman who died thinking she had coronavirus but did not.
When we phoned the hospital they asked us to send questions but we had not yet received a response when we went on air.
Some 3,882 people have died from the disease worldwide.
China has the highest death toll, followed by Italy and Iran. In Africa two people have died in Egypt and Morocco.
But 11 countries in Africa have been affected, namely Algeria, Burkina Faso, South Africa, Senegal, Tunisia, Togo, Egypt, Cameroon, DRC, Nigeria and Morocco. South Africa has 13 people infected with the virus.
Harare City Council is warning residents of Budiriro and Glen Norah communities not to use water from wells or wells they are digging as the water is contaminated.
Due to the frequent lack of tap water, residents in areas such as Glen Norah and Budiriro, are using well water.
But council spokesman Michael Chideme said a study conducted in Budiriro village by Glen Norah found that many mines were contaminated with diarrheal diseases such as typhoid fever.
Mr Chideme said most of the mines being used in the area were shallow, which would lead to the severity of the sewers.
Chideme said the council is providing water to these areas on a regular basis.
The head of the Community Water Alliance, Mr Hardlife Mudzingwa, criticized the council saying the lack of council water was the main reason for residents to mine mines.
Mr Mudzingwa also said some areas do not always get water.
Many residents of Harare do not have regular access to council water which has led to mining in mining villages even though it is not permitted by council regulations.
Residents also say that although the council's water is very dirty, they are also worried about their health.
Things are not going well in public hospitals as the children's nurse is not doing their job.
Patients at Parirenyatwa Hospital told Studio7 that they were shocked by the government-sponsored gathering of people in various parts of the country as patients picked ants by mouth from hospitals.
Shupikai Gachitawa has a child with a broken leg at Parirenyatwa Hospital. Ms Gachitawa says her child is not being given pills or baths and new bandages due to the lack of a nurse.
Ms Gachitawa said the government should listen to the cries of its people and arrange for nurses to return to work.
Innocent Mazise has since seen his patient criticize the government for taking action to expel child nurses who are on strike. Mr Mazise said the government should look into the nurses' grievances and not rule with an ax.
A man who did not want to be named told Studio7 that the wards are no longer clean as there are no bathers or cleaners. He also said that patients are losing their lives due to the lack of any pills and medicines and helpers.
One mother has demanded anonymity because Ms Gumbo has said she is planning to evacuate her patient from the hospital who she says has not been given medication and pills since Monday.
The secretary of the Zimbabwe Association of Doctors for Human Rights, Evans Masitara, said the government's decision to dismiss the nurses was "disgraceful", as they were suffering from the disease.
In a written statement to its members, the Zimbabwe Nurses Association said they were not alarmed by any action being taken by the government. The report also said that the strike was continuing.
Yesterday, Deputy President Constantino Guvheya Chiwenga filed a letter dismissing all striking nurses.
A propaganda video released last month by the Islamic State (IS) group shows the Sahel's appeal to global jihadism when "brothers" in Burkina Faso and Mali were congratulated for pledging their allegiance.
Ansarul Islam, meaning Defenders of Islam, is the home-grown group, founded in 2016 by the radical and popular preacher Ibrahim Malam Dicko, who is said to have fought with Islamist militants in Mali when they took over the north of country in 2012, prompting France's intervention.
Dicko died in April 2017 and his brother Jafar is now leading the group, which has received logistical support from both AQIM and ISGS, according to Human Rights Watch.
Widespread frustration with the lack of jobs and infrastructure has made Burkina Faso a fertile recruiting ground for jihadists - and there are numerous smaller groups, not all of which are affiliated to larger ones or pledge allegiance to Islamist ideology.
According to the Economist, many are fighting for farmland or against government corruption but "adopt the 'jihadist' label because they happen to be Muslim".
But Ncube said members of parliament should trust the government as they improve the banking system and the use of funds in the country for the benefit of the people.
He said there were many steps they were taking that would make things better in the country.
Kwekwe Central MP Masango Matambanadzo also told Ncube that the issue of separating the weight of bonds from the US dollar had made it difficult for many in the country.
He said it was important for the government to see what it could do to increase the salaries of its employees and the private sector in order to keep pace with rising costs.
But Mr Ncube said the government had already adjusted the salaries of its employees and that was why it was providing them with benefits.
They also know that workers in the private sector are also getting higher salaries.
But Mr Matambanadzo said increased wages were useless because commodity prices had risen sharply.
But Mr. Ncube said he would not increase workers' wages in line with the US dollar, saying that although prices were rising, prices of other commodities were falling because they were being bought by fewer people.
He said it was clear that businesses were buying foreign currency on the street but that they should buy the money from banks.
He said banks currently have $ 800 million in foreign currency and this is the amount to be spent by industries and companies.
In a separate development, Chipinge East MP Matthew Mlambo said he was unhappy that the 2000 resettlers had been evicted for no reason.
He said this was happening in many parts of the country.
Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Douglas Karoro, said the evictees were those living in unsuitable places such as cattle grazing or barns.
There are many families who have been evicted from farms given to them by the government many years ago in Chemagora in the Midlands and Mashonaland West and freedom fighters are also complaining about this issue.
The MDC, led by Nelson Chamisa, says it did not attend the meeting convened by President Emmerson Mnangagwa, because Mnangagwa himself is the cause of the unrest in the country.
The MDC says Mr Mnangagwa should not convene a rally to mediate between the two parties if he is a member of the party.
Responding to an invitation to a meeting with the president's office, the MDC's chief of staff, Sessel Zvizvai, said his leader could not attend the meeting, as there were many issues that needed to be resolved.
Mr Zvizvai said the outcome of the presidential election was one of the first issues to be considered.
He also said that the issue of dialogue should be convened by non-political actors so that reconciliation can be done in a way that is fair to all.
Mr Zvizvai also said the talks should be supported by organizations including the Souther African Development Community, the African Union and the United Nations.
The MDC has named 10 candidates for Mnangagwa before the talks with Chamisa.
These include stopping harassment of opponents; ensuring that no one is raped; the release from prison of all political prisoners; non-political interference in the functioning of the judiciary and respect for human rights.
The party's spokesman, Jacob Mafume, told Studio7 that before the reconciliation meeting, Mnangagwa should withdraw troops from the streets and allow other members of the opposition who had fled the country to return home from their homeland.
Three key Islamist militant groups have established a front in northern and eastern Burkina Faso: Ansarul Islam, the Group for the Support of Islam and Muslims (GSIM) and Islamic State in the Greater Sahara (ISGS).
One of the most audacious attacks of recent years - the January 2016 siege on a luxury hotel that killed 30 people in Burkina Faso's capital Ouagadougou - was carried out by al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), which has since merged with two other jihadist groups - Ansar Dine and al-Mourabitoun - to form GSIM
Manyuchi who owns the WBO Silver belt told Studio 7 that Ali's absence has left a gaping hole as he has made the public enjoy the sport of boxing. "A man who had this talent, my father was also a boxer who liked him and I respected him as he was the one who made me strong in this sport." said Manyuchi.
He went on to say, "Muhammad Ali was known for saying - float like a butterfly and sting like a bee," I am known as a busy bee as my name is beehive so I feel happy that my band was also fought by Muhammad Ali because it has a picture of him and is the target category, I'm sorry but I will continue to use the skills I gained through Muhammad Ali, "
International leaders, including former US President Bill Clinton and other foreign leaders, are expected to attend. Many deputies are expected to say goodbye to Ali this Friday. Roads are expected to be very congested.
Ali's family said when the funeral procession was over, everyone would go alone as a family to bury the deceased. 
A spokesman for the family, Bob Gunnell, said Ali's funeral was scheduled years ago based on the deceased's wishes. He is said to have wanted his grievances to be brought to the attention of anyone who wished.
Ali was born Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr. in 1942 but later changed his date after converting from being a Christian to a Muslim. 
He also won a gold medal in the light heavy weight category after defeating Zbigniew Pietrkowski of Poland.
Many American companies are considering the problem of COVID-19 (Coronavirus) as a major factor that has led many workers to work in their own homes, as a way to prevent the spread of the disease.
Other companies with jobs that cannot be employed at home, including food processors, have reportedly suspended some employees as they are unable to go to the offices.
Many states in the United States have banned the gathering of people in places including restaurants and movie theaters, prompting many workers in these service groups to be suspended until things improve.
The US government has also announced plans to set aside $ 1 trillion, which will be used to boost the country's economy by helping companies and individuals affected by the disease.
More than 6,000 people have been infected in the United States and more than 100 have died.
A Zimbabwean national living in the state of Maryland in the United States, Ms. Shingie Mangwiro, who is also working from home due to the disease, says she feels that the idea of ​​living at home is a good idea as it helps reduce social unrest.
Ms. Mangwiro, who sometimes works from home when there are other problems, says she has no problem with utilities as her home appliances are always connected to the workplace.
They also say that the steps being taken by US President Donald Trump and other government agencies are more appropriate in tackling the problem.
But Ms. Mangwiro is also urging those at home to prioritize sanitation, saying that although the disease has not yet entered the country, it is important that people take steps to prevent it.
Homeless people following the floods of the Tokwe Murkosi dam in Masvingo district last year say life is still difficult for them as they are no longer receiving assistance from the government and NGOs.
The announcement was made at the launch of a report outlining the plight of these people.
Speaking at the end of the launch of the Human Rights Watch charter, which conducted a social survey at Nuanetsi Ranch, some of the homeless following the floods said they were unhappy that the government had not yet provided them with shelter a year after the floods.
One of the victims, Kundiso Tevera, claims to have been abducted by the government. He said when they were relocated to Nuanetsi it was too small for all the families affected by the floods to do anything.
Ms. Tevera said one of the problems was the spread of diarrheal diseases which she said were caused by the unsafe water she said they were getting from the boreholes which she said were far from Nuanetsi Ranch when they were given land to live on.
Meanwhile, one of the victims, Wanisai Muzenda, said food was a problem for many displaced people in Tokwe Mukorsi, saying many people were starving due to the suspension of food aid from NGOs.
Ms Muzenda says the person is living with the virus, so the lack of food in the resettlement area has prevented them from taking their pills and says they are already dying.
One of the men, Kenneth Hlavano, a former soldier, said he was saddened by the fact that he had been evacuated three times since the floods for free.
Meanwhile, Dewa Mavhinga, working with the Human Rights Watch evacuation team, urged the Human Rights Commission to investigate the ongoing evictions in Tokwe Murkosi and the ongoing human rights abuses.
We have not been able to hear the government's side of the story as Masvingo provincial minister Kudakwashe Bhasikiti has not responded to phone calls and interior minister Kembo Mohadi has been returning questions to Basikiti.
Mavhinga urged the victims to take their cases to court. 
Mavhinga was speaking at the launch of his organization's report on the evacuation of Tokwe Murkosi following last year's floods called "Homeless, Landless and Destitute - The Plight of Zimbabwe's Tokwe Mukorsi Flood Victims".
A report released by Human Rights Watch is urging the government to rehabilitate more than 20,000 flood victims and reimburse them.
The group is also urging the African Union to ensure that Zimbabwe protects human rights. President Robert Mugabe is the current chair of the AU.
The coach of the national senior and junior team, KalistoPasuwa, has resigned.
Pasuwa resigned yesterday when the Young Warriors returned from South Africa where they were beaten 3-0.
Pasuwa has told the Zimbabwe Football Association that he will not continue to work without pay, which he has not been paid for 10 months.
Pasuwa's manager, Gibson Mahachi, says Pasuwa has resigned and is looking forward to more work to come.
Rumors are circulating in Harare that Pasuwa may return to Dynamos after the sacking of David Mandigora as the club's coach.
Former Warriors kit manager Joshua Khumalo, who was unpaid during his tenure, says Pasuwa has taken a positive step instead of working for free.
Khumalo said he was surprised that Fifa was not paying its employees while receiving funding from Fifa for support.
Football commentator Prosper Muzanharwo said the beating of the Young Warriors in South Africa had nothing to do with their performance but that they were starving because of Zifa's lack of funding.
Sports commentator Howard Musonza said Zifa had failed so badly that they should be fired if they failed to pay their employers.
The Young Warriors will travel to the Africa Games in Congo Brazaville in September with a new coach, Nation Dube, who was Pasuwa's successor.
The Warriors will also have a new coach when they play Guinea in the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations in early September.
Church members are gathering in Harare to pray for a solution to the crisis, with President Emmerson Mnangagwa calling for unity among political parties.
The internet has been shut off and a curfew imposed in Eswatini, the southern African kingdom formerly known as Swaziland.
Security forces are on high alert as protesters demanding political reforms have vowed to step up their demonstrations.
A journalist told the BBC that overnight there were violent confrontations in the city of Manzini and that the country’s borders and airport remain closed.
Days of protests have left several people in hospital, businesses in the capital, Mbabane, remain closed after some, including those linked to the king, were destroyed.
Sporadic demonstrations over poor wages and political repression have flared up over the years in Eswatini - this most recent one was sparked by the death of law student.
While the government says his death was the result of a car accident, protesters say he was murdered by police.
The protests have highlighted long-running discontent in one of the world’s last remaining absolute monarchies.
King Mswati III, who came to the throne 35 years ago, rules by decree.
His critics accuse the 53-year-old monarch, and his 15 wives, of leading a lavish lifestyle and treating opponents harshly.
A court in Morocco is reported to have sentenced an Italian-Moroccan woman to three and a half years in prison for insulting Islam after she shared a post on Facebook of a satirical text imitating Quranic verse.
The father of the 23-year-old woman says that she was arrested at the airport in the capital, Rabat, on her return from France where she was studying.
A religious association in Marrakesh instigated the case against her by making a complaint to the authorities.
Ghana’s President Nana Akufo-Addo has ordered a public inquiry into the shooting dead of two protesters.
Four others were injured during clashes with the security forces in the central town of Ejura on Tuesday.
The disturbances began after popular government critic Ibrahim Mohammed, also known as “Macho Kaaka”, was beaten up over the weekend in Ejura and subsequently died.
Demonstrators blocked the main road after his burial on Tuesday, the police said.
Security personnel deployed to restore calm were threatened with firearms, machetes and stones, the police statement adds.
The protesters were killed when security personnel opened fire.
A top Liberian drug enforcement officer has apologised for making allegations that an MP was caught transporting drugs.
The officer told a drug awareness forum about her encounter with an MP who, she said, was seen carrying marijuana, cocaine and heroin in his official vehicle.
She declined to name the MP at the time.
But the allegation was published widely in local dailies and on social media, prompting the 73-member parliament to summon the officer to disclose the name of the MP in question.
When she appeared before the house, the officer admitted making the allegation but refused to point out the MP and instead asked for forgiveness.
The hearing was adjourned as the officer was rushed to hospital after suddenly falling ill.
Substance abuse is a huge challenge in post-war Liberia, where the under-funded Drug Enforcement Agency struggles to tackle the drug trade.
Ethiopia’s Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed has downplayed Monday’s capture by rebels of the Tigrayan regional capital, Mekelle.
"A lot of people were shocked… when we started withdrawing from Mekelle. But, by the time we exited, there was nothing special about it,” he said.
“It had lost its centre of gravity in the current context."
But the rebels insist the federal forces had been beaten and were forced to leave.
Earlier, Deputy Foreign Minister Redwan Hussein said the military could retake Mekelle in three weeks if necessary.
The government had other economic priorities to deal with, he said.
More than $2.2bn (£1.6bn) had been spent by the government over the past eight months in Tigray in efforts to provide aid, he added.
Fighting has been going on since November, leaving thousands of people dead and destabilising the region.
The UN has appealed for urgent access to vulnerable people in Tigray, many of whom face starvation.
The roots of this crisis can be traced to Ethiopia's system of government.
Since 1994, Ethiopia has had a federal system in which different ethnic groups control the affairs of 10 regions.
Remember that powerful party from Tigray? Well, this party - the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF) - was influential in setting up this system.
It was the leader of a four-party coalition that governed Ethiopia from 1991, when a military regime was ousted from power.
Under the coalition, Ethiopia became more prosperous and stable, but concerns were routinely raised about human rights and the level of democracy.
Eventually, discontent morphed into protest, leading to a government reshuffle that saw Mr Abiy appointed prime minister.
Mr Abiy liberalised politics, set up a new party (the Prosperity Party), and removed key Tigrayan government leaders accused of corruption and repression.
Meanwhile, Mr Abiy ended a long-standing territorial dispute with neighbouring Eritrea, earning him a Nobel Peace Prize in 2019.
These moves won Mr Abiy popular acclaim, but caused unease among critics in Tigray.
Tigray's leaders saw Mr Abiy's reforms as an attempt to centralise power and destroy Ethiopia's federal system.
The feud came to a head in September, when Tigray defied the central government to hold its own regional election.
The central government, which had postponed national elections because of coronavirus, said it was illegal.
The rift grew when the central government suspended funding for Tigray and cut ties with it in October. 
At the time, Tigray's administration said this amounted to a "declaration of war".
Tensions increased, and the eventual catalyst was when Tigrayan forces were accused of attacking army bases to steal weapons.
Mr Abiy said Tigray had crossed a "red line".
"The federal government is therefore forced into a military confrontation," he said.
Algerian Finance Minister Ayman Benabderrahmane has been appointed as the new prime minister following parliamentary elections earlier this month that were marred by a low turnout
Mr Benabderrahmane, who was also once the central bank governor, now has to try to form a government to tackle the North African nation’s economic crisis.
Reforms promised by President Abdelmadjid Tebboune when he took office 18 months ago have been hampered by the sharp drop in oil and gas revenues and the coronavirus pandemic.
The main Islamist party, the MSP - which came third in the election - has said it will not participate in the new government.
The new prime minister will also have to respond to the demands of an influential popular protest movement - known as the Hirak - calling for radical political change.
It brought to an end the long-time rule of former President Abdelaziz Bouteflika in 2019.
The Hirak called for a boycott of the recent elections and continues to hold weekly demonstrations in various parts of the country.
Dozens of its members have been prosecuted and jailed, according to human rights groups.
Namibia’s President Hage Geingob has said his country is facing a “dark and sombre moment” as coronavirus deaths and cases rapidly increase.
Addressing the nation, he said that 513 Namibians had died in the last 15 days as a result of the virus and cases have trebled since the beginning of June.
With a population of just 2.5 million this represents one of the worst death rates on the continent.
Introducing new restrictions, including stopping movement between the country’s regions, Mr Geingob said that things were likely to continue to get worse until mid-August at the earliest.
Speaking after the president, Health Minister Kalumbi Shangula said the country was “literally in an existential struggle… we are in a fight for our very lives”.
He described a stretched health service and said that the country’s mortuaries “have reached maximum capacity”.
The minister announced that more intensive care beds were being prepared and steps had been taken to boost the country’s purified oxygen supply.
Rounding off his message, President Geingob urged people to co-operate with the new measures and insisted the nation would overcome the crisis.
A man extradited to Rwanda from the Netherlands has been sentenced to 25 years in prison for genocide crimes committed when he was 19.
During Jean-Claude Iyamuremye’s five-year trial, he denied involvement in the 1994 genocide when around 800,000 ethnic Tutsis and moderate Hutus were killed in 100 days by Hutu extremists.
The high court judge said Iyamuremye had been a member of a youth militia that hunted and killed members of the Tutsi community in his neighbourhood in the capital, Kigali.
The 45-year-old defended himself, saying his own mother was a Tutsi.
The judge said he could have sentenced Iyamuremye to life, but had decided not to as he was “so young” when the crimes were committed and he had also saved some Tutsi families.
Iyamuremye was arrested in 2013 in the Netherlands, where he had worked as a driver for staff at the Israeli and Finnish embassies.
He was sent back to Rwanda by the Dutch authorities in 2016.
Two suspected jihadists have been arrested over the Solhan attack in the north-eastern region of Burkina Faso on 4 June in which more than 130 people were killed.
The prosecutor announced the arrest of two suspects, aged 28, in a statement.
Both claim to belong to the Mouhadine group, meaning "People in Solidarity", which is thought to be affiliated to al-Qaeda.
It is divided into several sub-groups based in Burkina Faso and has led incursions into Niger and Benin.
The prosecutor said the the group was responsible for previous attacks in Solhan, Sebba, Boundoré and Koholoko on the Niger border.
The prosecutor has requested the opening of a judicial investigation into the two suspects on a number of terrorism-related charges.
The attack on the village of Solhan, which took place at an artisanal mining site, is considered to be the deadliest attack in Burkina Faso since April 2015.
It has caused discontent and criticism about the ability of the defence and security forces to contain jihadist violence in the country.
On Sunday evening, in a radio and television message, President Roch Marc Christian Kaboré promised to strengthen the operational capacity of troops on the ground.
About 300 British troops have arrived in the troubled West African state of Mali at a time when the epicentre of the Islamic State group (IS) appears to have moved from the Middle East to Africa.
In a three-year mission named Operation Newcombe they are joining a force of around 15,000 UN multinational troops, spearheaded by the French, in efforts to help stabilise a part of the continent known as the Sahel.
Mali is one of several Sahel nations currently fighting jihadist insurgencies and the violence is getting worse.
According to the Global Terrorism Index published on 25 November, the "centre of gravity" for the Islamic State group IS has moved away from the Middle East to Africa and to some extent South Asia, with total deaths by IS in sub-Saharan Africa up by 67% over last year.
"The expansion of ISIS affiliates into sub-Saharan Africa led to a surge in terrorism in many countries in the region," reports the Global Terrorism Index.
"Seven of the 10 countries with the largest increase in terrorism were in sub-Saharan Africa: Burkina Faso, Mozambique, DRC, Mali, Niger, Cameroon and Ethiopia".
The report points out that in 2019 "sub-Saharan Africa recorded the largest number of ISIS-related terrorism deaths at 982, or 41 per cent of the total".
Jihadists have long been active in Africa.
In modern times the late al-Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden made Sudan his base before moving back to Afghanistan in 1996.
Nigeria's Boko Haram movement, infamous for kidnapping hundreds of schoolgirls at Chibok in 2014, carried out major attacks after declaring a jihad in 2010.
But today, as competition increase between rival jihadist groups, the threat of terrorism in the region is increasing.
The US State Department's coordinator for counter-terrorism, ambassador Nathan Sales, says both IS and al-Qaeda have shifted much of their operations away from their heartland in Syria and Iraq to their affiliates in West and East Africa, as well as Afghanistan.
"Africa", he says, "is a key front in the next stage in the fight against terrorism".
But it is not just a case of governments versus insurgents, there is also a deadly rivalry taking place between supporters of al-Qaeda and IS. This rivalry is becoming so intense that French expert on jihad Olivier Guitta from GlobalStrat Risk Consultancy even predicts:
"Africa is going to be the battleground of jihad for the next 20 years and it's going to replace the Middle East".
Al-Qaeda and IS share a common loathing for secular, Western-supported rulers whom they call "apostates".
But they also have major differences in their approach.
IS has a predilection for extreme, graphic, violence - as demonstrated by its gruesome beheading videos.
While this certainly attracts sociopaths and convicted criminals to its ranks, it also tends to repel the vast majority of Muslims.
Al-Qaeda and its affiliates often seek to win over the loyalty of local populations who have no confidence in their governments or their police, exploiting regional and ethnic grievances.
Several of the world's poorest nations border the Sahara desert.
This region is known as "the Sahel", an Arabic word literally meaning "the coast".
Mali, Chad, Niger, Burkina Faso and Mauritania make up the Sahel countries and all have suffered attacks from insurgents.
Parts of the region are afflicted variously with drought, poverty, unemployment, corruption and in some cases large tracts of ungoverned space.
"West Africa", says ambassador Sales, "is a perfect storm, with nation states that don't control their territories, commit abuses by their forces, and have porous borders".
The dominant jihadist group in this region is the al-Qaeda affiliate Jama'at Nusrat Al-Islam wa'l-Muslimin (JNIM).
The group is in direct competition with the IS affiliate Islamic State in the Greater Sahara (ISGS) and this year has seen a number of low-level battles between them.
Nigeria has suffered some of the worst jihadist attacks in the region, with the government struggling to control the north-east of the country where the Boko Haram movement evolved.
According to the Global Terrorism Index, Boko Haram has been responsible for over "37,500 combat-related deaths and over 19,000 deaths from terrorism since 2011, mainly in Nigeria" but also neighbouring countries.
In 2015, one faction of Boko Haram pledged allegiance to IS, becoming "Islamic State West Africa Province" (Iswap), crossing borders with ease and capturing a multinational base on the shores of Lake Chad in 2018.
IS has since been heavily promoting this African affiliate.
Attacks are still being carried in Boko Haram's name. A video posted by the group on 1 December claimed responsibility for massacring dozens of farmers in Borno state who it claimed had collaborated with government forces.
Western nations have offered only limited military and intelligence assistance to Nigeria. Western diplomats say they are constrained by the corruption and poor human rights record of the Nigerian military.
These failings have been a major contributor towards mistrust of the government and towards recruitment for Boko Haram and other jihadist groups in the region.
"The corruption angle in Nigeria" says Olivier Guitta, "is ruining everything".
Al-Qaeda's insurgency in North Africa started off in Algeria.
So it is no surprise that the newly appointed leader of al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) is an Algerian.
The white-bearded 51-year-old Abu Obaida Al-Annabi replaces his predecessor, Abdelmalik Droukdel, who was killed by French troops in Mali in June.
In a microcosm of the wider al-Qaeda-IS rivalry, his appointment has been cheered by al-Qaeda's supporters while rival IS supporters have cast doubt on his jihadist credentials.
Tunisia, the smallest country in the region, produced one of the highest numbers of volunteers - 15-20,000 - who travelled to Syria to join IS during its peak years of 2013-2018.
With high unemployment and a proximity to Libya, Tunisia continues to face an ongoing threat from terrorism.
Libya has been in a state of intermittent chaos ever since the Arab Spring revolt of 2011 and the overthrow of the despotic regime of Muammar Gaddafi.
The end of his regime not only released thousands of tonnes of weapons and explosives from government armouries, much of it making its way across the southern border into the Sahel countries, it also allowed IS jihadists to gain a foothold in the east of Libya.
Somalia's al-Shabab group - Arabic for "the young men" - has been one of the most persistent and dangerous jihadist movements on the entire continent.
"Al-Shabab" says Nathan Sales, "sees itself as al-Qaeda's most successful group"
It has survived concerted multinational military campaigns to eradicate it yet it has been able to strike across its borders in Kenya and Uganda as well as detonating massive bombs in the Somali capital, Mogadishu.
US Special Operations raids and drone strikes, launched from neighbouring Djibouti, frequently kill al-Shabab leaders and yet the group has been able to keep regenerating itself.
It has also succeeded in beating back a challenge from the local IS affiliate which is now largely confined to the north-east tip of the Horn of Africa.
The foothold gained by IS in the northern district of Cabo Delgado under the banner of "Islamic State Central Africa Province" (ISCAP), could well be an example of a full-blown insurgency arranged almost entirely over the internet.
Counter-terrorism officials believe that the jihadists operating in this gas-rich part of Mozambique have been recruited online with some input from across the border in Tanzania but largely without the physical presence of recruiters sent from the IS heartlands of Syria and Iraq.
There are conflicting reports as to the veracity of some of the recent atrocities carried out in the name of IS in Cabo Delgado, such as the alleged massacre of around 50 villagers on a football field.
But IS does appear to be getting the upper hand against the government.
"IS" says Olivier Guitta, "is moving around within Mozambique unhampered by other forces".
This is a hugely contentious issue.
In June 2013 all seven leaders at the G7 summit at Loch Erne signed up to an agreement not to pay ransoms to proscribed terrorist organisations.
Seven years on and the reality remains that European citizens tend to be eventually released for undisclosed amounts while British and American hostages are the most likely to get executed.
Several French citizens have been released from jihadist captivity in the Sahel, most recently in exchange for the release of a large number of dangerous jihadist prisoners in Mali.
Analysts have put the total amount paid to jihadist kidnappers in North and West Africa over the years at more than €100m ($120m; £90m).
This ransom money is then used by the jihadists to buy more weapons, more explosives, better vehicles, night vision goggles, communications equipment as well as funding their recruitment efforts and providing bribes to corrupt officials.
Recent attacks on churches in northern Burkina Faso are likely to be the work of jihadists whose activities are growing in the region despite a military operation to contain Islamist militancy.
The country's foreign minister says tackling terrorism has become a fight "for the very survival" of the Sahel region, which incorporates Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, Mauritania and Niger.
The militants have forced 100,000 in Burkina Faso alone to flee their homes in recent months.
In the last month there have been at least five attacks targeting Christians, several taking place during church services - though no group has said it was behind these assaults, analysts say they have all the jihadists' hallmarks.
It shows a shift in tactics, according to Djallil Lounnas, an expert on militancy in the Sahara at Morocco's Al Akhawayn University.
"Usually religious minorities have not been touched, especially Christian minorities, since jihadist violence broke out in the area," he says.
This is particularly troubling given Burkina Faso's long history of religious tolerance, but it forms part of a jihadist strategy to sow religious and inter-communal conflict.
"It's an old guerrilla, terrorist tactic to increase their ranks by fuelling mass violence," says Louis Audet-Gosselin of the Canadian Network for Research on Terrorism.
Conflict and instability also create the conditions that allow jihadists to install bases and control territory.
"The security situation in the country is degrading almost daily," says Mr Audet-Gosselin. "Jihadist groups are gaining ground bit by bit, forcing state officials and state sovereignty out of several rural areas and increasingly some cities."
Those targeted are often associated with the state - village counsellors, mayors, police officers, civil servants and civilians accused of collaborating with military.
Schools and teachers are soft targets for Islamists militants, who oppose secular education. More than 1,000 schools in the north have been forced to close recently, affecting more than 150,000 children.
Human Rights Watch has also reported numerous abuses by government forces during counter-terrorism operations, including summary executions of Fulanis, a largely Muslim ethnic group of semi-nomadic herders.
"The army is pretty brutal and tends to single out the Fulani community as a whole, as guilty by association to jihadist groups... which in turn leads to increasing militancy from Fulani youth," says Mr Audet-Gosselin.
A lack of services has created a vacuum that militant groups have been able to exploit by sometimes stepping in to deliver them, but mostly their presence means chaos and violence.
A resident in the northern town of Djibo told the BBC: "Many homes have been deserted. Economic activity has ground to a halt. 
We no longer have any nightlife. 
Westerners who are high-value targets have left."
Witnesses say gunmen also sporadically go on the rampage, looting shops and mugging people.
"Burkina Faso is a barrier between the Sahel and the coastal countries in the fight against terrorism. 
If that is broken down, its neighbours will be affected," warns Burkina Faso's Foreign Minister Alpha Barry.
In April when jihadist leader Oumarou Diallo, who operated in eastern Burkina Faso, was arrested along with some 20 followers, security sources told the BBC they had found evidence he was in contact with people in Togo, Benin and Ghana.
The most high-profile example that this insecurity is already spilling over is the abduction of French tourists from a national park in northern Benin in May.
When French special forces officers secured their release, the kidnappers had already moved them to northern Burkina Faso - and it is believed they were planning to hand them over to Mali-based militants.
French Armed Forces Minister Florence Parly said at the time that there were two main militant groups operating near where the French tourists were taken - one linked to al-Qaeda and the other to IS.
Le Monde newspaper has also reported an unnamed source as saying armed groups have established themselves in northern Togo and Benin in "hard-to-reach forest areas, where traffickers and bandits in the region are rampant".
Correspondents say many recruits join up, not out of ideology, but simply because they see it as the only alternative to destitution.
But the concern for the government is the belief by intelligence officials that some ex-soldiers of the presidential elite regiment, the RSP, have been lending Ansarul Islam a hand.
The RSP was a unit set up by former President Blaise Compaoré for his personal security, however when he was ousted in an uprising in 2014, it suddenly felt its existence threatened.
In a bid for survival, members staged a short-lived coup against the transitional government before being forced to hand over power by neighbouring countries.
Fleeing justice afterwards, many RSP members, including an officer called Boubacar Sawadogo, took to a clandestine life.
Officials were quoted by a Malian newspaper in 2017 as saying that they had intercepted a communication between Mr Sawadogo and Ansarul Islam's leader.
The intercept confirmed what the government had long suspected - that former RSP members were taking part in attacks by jihadists both in Mali and Burkina Faso.
A state of emergency was declared in several regions in December, granting security forces extra powers to search homes and restrict freedom of movement.
According to the UN, more than a fifth of the country's national budget is spent on defence and security.
But the former French colony, a poor country even by West African standards, is struggling and the security forces remain ill-equipped to tackle the scale of the jihadist threat.
It is part of a five-national regional force, the G5 Sahel, created in September 2017 to take on the militants.
Yet most of the funds pledged by partners and donors - including the European Union - still have not been handed over, says the BBC's Simon Gongo in Burkina Faso.
"Reconstruction of an effective security apparatus with a competent intelligence branch and elite commandos will take time, as will improving the G5's operational readiness," says International Crisis Group in its latest report on Burkina Faso.
France also has some 4,500 troops in the Sahel region in an ongoing counter-terror mission codenamed Operation Barkhane.
Fuel prices at the pumps have been reduced by 8 pesewas per litre effective Wednesday, May 5, 2021.
This means that the recent 17 pesewas per litre increase announced by the National Petroleum Authority (NPA) has been reduced to 9 pesewas per litre.
It takes effect from Wednesday, May 5, 2021.
This was made known in a communique issued on Tuesday, May 4, 2021 by the stakeholders in the fuel sector at a meeting held at the Ministry of Energy between the Minister of Energy, Dr Matthew Opoku Prempeh and the National Petroleum Authority (NPA), the Association of Oil Marketing Companies (AOMCs), Bulk Oil Storage and Transportation Co Ltd (BOST), the Chamber of Petroleum Consumers (COPEC) and the Institute for Energy Policies and Research (INSTEPR).
"The 17 pesewas per litre increase in fuel margins previously announced by the NPA has been reduced to 9 pesewas per litre effective tomorrow Wednesday 5th May 2021," the communique said.
The communique was signed by the Minister of Energy, NPA, BOST, AOMCs. COPEC and INSTEPR.
The development followed a request by the Minister of Energy for a round table discussion to revise certain components on the price build up.
In justifying the fuel price increment, the Public Relations Officer of the National Petroleum Authority (NPA), Yaro Kasambata has explained that the level of fuel consumption in the country is a contributor to the cause of the fuel price hike.
According to him, the country’s fuel consumption level over the last 10 years indicates that Ghana is growing with a lot of cars on the road and is full of economic activities to match the demand of fuel to do things in the country.
Speaking on Okay Fm’s "Ade Akye Abia" Morning Show, Yaro Kasambata revealed that with petrol only, Ghanaians consume 120 million litres every month while diesel consumption is 160 million litres monthly.
He maintained that with these amounts of fuel consumption monthly, it results in even 1 Pesewa increase in the fuel price accumulating huge sums of money; emphasizing that “the high level of fuel consumption is making it difficult to maintain fuel price due to how we have grown. As we are today, we were not the same in 10 years ago”.
He however outlined three factors as the main cause of the fuel price increases, naming one cause to be the price of crude oil and the price of the world market refined petrol. 
He added that between mid Februarys to May 17, prices of crude oil and refined product on the world market have gone up.
He mentioned that crude oil only went up by 34 percent, petrol by 37 percent, diesel went up by 36 percent and with LPG, it went up by 43 percent; slating that with these increases, Ghana cannot maintain or reduce fuel prices.
With the second cause of fuel price increase, Yaro Kasambata blames it on the depreciation of the cedi against the dollar, indicating that between mid Februarys and now, the cedi has depreciated against the dollar as this has affected the price of fuel.
He mentioned thirdly that the policy of full cost recovery to make the price of crude oil in the world market to match the price of Ghana is another to factor which has contributed to the fuel price increases.
He bemoaned that as the NPA maintained the fuel price between the mid February to May 17, there has been a debt of Gh¢146 million and so without these increases in fuel price the authority cannot get letters of credit to buy fuel and as such there will be a shortage in the country.
Commenting on the current price of crude oil in the world market, Yaro Kasambata revealed it is $64.32 dollars per barrel. 
He however failed to comment on whether the current price of crude in comparison with Kufuor’s era where it was sold for $147 per barrel merit the current fuel price with the excuse that he is not a politician.
The Government has commiserated with the families of the three persons who perished in the Monday accident at Onyinanumfo in the Ahafo-Ano South-West District of the Ashanti Region.
“We are deeply saddened by what has befallen this community, and would continue to stand solidly behind all those affected in the calamity,” Mr. Eric Nana Agyemang-Prempeh, Director-General of the National Disaster Management Organization (NADMO), told the media.
This was when he visited the affected community with other NADMO officials to assess the extent of damage caused to the farming community, following the accident on May 24.
The three, including a two-year-old boy, perished when a speeding fuel tanker, reportedly carrying diesel from Kumasi, caught fire after hitting a parked commercial bus on reaching a sharp curve in that community.
The fuel was to be discharged at Tepa.
Five passengers on the bus who got injured were sent to the hospital for treatment, while the bodies of the deceased have also been deposited at the morgue for autopsy.
More than 100 persons, who lost their homes in the inferno, are putting up in make-shift structures.
Mr. Agyemang-Prempeh, therefore, presented some relief items to the victims.
They include 20 packets of roofing sheets, 50 mattresses,100 pieces of blankets, mosquito nets and insecticide.
He also presented 20 bags of cooking oil, soap and quantities of second-hand clothing to them.
The NADMO Director-General described the incident as unfortunate and prayed for the souls of the departed.
Fuel prices have gone up by an average of 19.4% this year, driven by depreciation of the cedi and rising prices of crude oil, as well as prices of finished petroleum products on the world market.
Last year ended with a litre of petrol selling at an average price of GH¢3.79 while the average price of diesel was GH¢3.75
The average price of crude oil in 2016 was $55 per barrel.
Speaking to The Finder, the Principal Research Analyst of the Institute for Energy Security (IES), Richmond Rockson, said that for 2017, crude oil traded for $63 per barrel as of December, which is one of the highest since June 2015.
19.4% fuel price increase in 2017
He explained that the current average price of a litre of petrol and diesel is GH¢4.49, and this represents an average increase of 19.4% compared to the 2016 figures.
Gallon of fuel costs GH¢20.20 
According to him, currently, a gallon of petrol and diesel costs GH¢20.20, compared to GH¢17.05 per a gallon in 2016. 
He noted that the increases were mainly fuelled by exchange rate depreciation, prices of finished products, and rising crude oil prices.
Breakdown of pricing mechanism
Rockson explained that in calculating fuel prices, crude oil constitutes 20% of the pricing mechanism, exchange rate makes up 30% of pricing, and the finished product constitutes 50% of the pricing.
The Principal Research Analyst of IES noted that the cedi ended 2016 at GH¢4 to $1, but 15% depreciation in 2017 has moved the exchange rate to GH¢4.62 to $1.
7 Pesewas PSRL reduction on diesel and LPG
Government recently reduced the Price Stabilisation and Recovery Levy (PSRL) on diesel by seven pesewas per litre from the current 10 pesewas to three pesewas. 
In the same vein, the PSRL on LPG was reduced by seven pesewas per kilogramme from 10 pesewas to three pesewas.
2.5% drop in Special Petroleum Levy in 2017
The government, in its 2017 budget, reduced the Special Petroleum Tax from 17.5% to 15%, and went ahead to scrap the excise duty on petroleum products.
Without these interventions, Ghanaians would have been paying more for fuel than the current fuel prices.
Data from IES in the 24 pricing windows in 2017 has been analysed. 
January pricing window - 7.27%
In January, the prices of petroleum products went up by 7.27%, comprising 4.75% increase in the first pricing window, and 2.52% increase in the second pricing window.
February - 3% increase
Prices remained stable in the first pricing window in February while the second pricing window witnessed a 3% increase.
March - 6% increase
In March, the first pricing window saw a marginal increase of between 1.18 and 2.6% while increases ranging from 2.69% to 4.56% were effected in the second pricing window.
April - 1.5% drop in prices 
In April, the prices of petroleum products decreased by 1.5% in the first window while there was no price change in the second window. 
May - 1.7% increase 
For the month of May, prices went up marginally by 1.7%, made up of 1.03% drop in the first pricing window and 2% increase in the second pricing window.
June - 3.23% increase 
June recorded 3.23% increase in prices as prices went up by 4% in the first window and 0.77% drop in prices in the second window.
July - 1.31% drop 
The first pricing window in July recorded 1.31% drop in prices, but there were no price changes in the second window.
August - 6.07% increase 
The two pricing windows in August cumulatively recorded 6.07% increase, comprising 4.48% increase in first window and 3.55% rise in the second window.
September - 9.57% increase 
Cumulatively, September witnessed 9.57% increase in prices, with first window recording 3% increase and 6.57% increase in second window.
October - no increase 
The figures for the first pricing window are 1% drop in petrol and 1.51% increase in diesel while the second window recorded 1.02% drop in prices.
November - 5.9% drop 
Prices were stable in the first window, but it went up by 5.9% in the second window.
December - No price change 
The 7% reduction in the PSRL stabilised prices for December.
he Presbyterian Church of Ghana (PCG) will hold its 18th General Assembly at the Christ Congregation at Akropong Akuapem in the Eastern Region from August 17th to 23rd, 2018 under the theme: ‘Go and Make Disciples of All Nations”(Mathew 28:19).
The General Assembly, which is the highest decision making body of the PCG, is expected to attract about 250 Commissioners, and Corresponding Members from all the 21  Presbyteries, both home and abroad.
Major highlights of the Assembly would include the Official Opening Ceremony which the Minister for Chieftaincy and Religious Affairs, Hon. Kofi Dzamesi is expected be the Special Guest of Honour, Divine Service, Service to Commemorate the Faithful Departed and Plenary Sessions from Monday 20th August 2017.
The Assembly will also take decisions that will guide the activities of the Church in the coming years. 
Ministers retiring from the active service of the Church would also be presented to General Assembly.
The General Assembly, will review activities of the Church in the previous year, plan for the ensuing year, and also serve as a platform for fellowship, interactions and networking among Commissioners and Corresponding Members.
The Official Opening Ceremony will be performed by the Acting Moderator of the General Assembly Rev Dr Victor Okoe Abbey.
One significant thing about this year’s General Assembly is that it marks one hundred years of Synod/ General Assembly System of the Church’s governance.
It was in 1918 at Akropong Akuapem where the first Synod of the then Presbyterian Church of Gold Coast now Presbyterian Church of Ghana was held and the first Moderator and the Clerk were also appointed in the person of the late Very Revs. Peter Hall and Nicholas Timothy Clerk respectively.
We appeal to all Presbyterians and the Christian community both home and abroad to pray for successful General Assembly.
The Presbyterian Church of Ghana (PCG) will hold its 20th General Assembly at the Grace Congregation, Akropong Akuapem in the Eastern Region on 4th November 2020 under the theme: “Let Christ Be Formed in You: Equipping the Saints for Ministry in Christ” (Ephesians 4:12).
The Assembly will be chaired by the Moderator of the General Assembly of the PCG, The Rt. Rev. Prof. Joseph Obiri Yeboah Mante.
The General Assembly, which is the highest decision making body of the PCG, is expected to attract about 250 Commissioners, and Corresponding Members from all the 21 Presbyteries of the Church, both home and abroad. (Some Commissioners and Corresponding Members will join virtually).
The one-day General Assembly became necessary following the Church’s inability to hold it in August 2020 as planned due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 Pandemic, and the subsequent restrictions imposed on all public gatherings, including church activities.
Major highlights of the Assembly would include Opening Devotion, Opening Ceremony by the Moderator of the General Assembly of the PCG, Rt. Rev. Prof. Joseph Obiri Yeboah Mante which will include his address to the Assembly, report by the Clerk of General Assembly, Rev. Dr. Godwin Nii Noi Odonkor, presentation of the Church’s 2021 budget, and Prayer Sessions.
The Senior Minister, Hon. Yaw Osafo Maafo is expected to represent the President of the Repuiblic of Ghana, His Excellency Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo as Special Guest of Honour.
The General Assembly will review activities of the Church in the previous year, plan for the ensuing year, and serve as a platform for fellowship, interactions and networking among Commissioners and Corresponding Members.
The 20th General Assembly will also take decisions that will guide the activities of the Church in subsequent years.
Members of the PCG and the entire Christian Community are kindly urged to pray for the success of the 20th General Assembly 2020.
The Methodist Church Ghana has elected Rt. Rev. Dr Paul Boafo, the administrative Bishop of the church as its new Presiding Bishop.
He takes over from The Most Rev. Titus Kofi Awotwi Pratt who is due for superannuation [retirement] next month.
Dr. Boafo, who is also the immediate past Protestant Chaplain of the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology (KNUST), was elected at the 10th Biennial and 48th Delegates Conference of the Methodist Church at Sekondi in the Western Region.
He polled a total of 223 votes as against his closet contender, Very Rev. Asamoah Gyedu who gathered 104 votes.
All other nominees had 26 votes combined.
Whilst the Church congratulates Dr. Boafo on his election, it said the choice of the Presiding Bishop was made “after hours of prayers and waiting.”
He is expected to assume office on October 1, 2018 after an induction service.
The Presiding Bishop position
The Presiding Bishop is the Head of The Methodist Church Ghana and exercises pastoral and spiritual oversight over the whole Church.
The Church’s Constitution and Standing Orders stipulate that, one needs to have served a minimum of twenty (20) continuous years after ordination as a Minister of the Church to qualify to be elected for the top post of the Church.
A candidate who obtains more than fifty percent of valid votes by delegates is duly elected to the position of a Presiding Bishop, pending induction to begin a six (6) year non-renewable term of office.
Profile of the new Presiding Bishop
Dr. Boafo was born at Asankrangwa in the Western Region of Ghana to a Roman Catholic couple Opanin Paul Kwaw Boafo of blessed memory and Madam Agatha Ama Asamoah Boafo.
He started school at the Asankrangwa Roman Catholic Primary in 1963.
Paul was enrolled in the Wa Experimental Primary School and later moved to other schools in Mangu, Kenyasi No 2, Sefwi Wiawso, and Sefwi Bekwai according to the itinerant ministry of his uncle.
It was from the Sefwi Bekwai Methodist Middle School that Paul entered the Wenchi Methodist Secondary School from 1972 – 1977 for his General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level Examination. 
He then proceeded to Wesley College, Kumasi, to train as a teacher from 1978 to 1981.
He was ordained on Sunday 27th August 1989 at the Wesley Cathedral, Sunyani.
Paul was the foundation Superintendent Minister of the New Achimota Circuit in the Accra Diocese (1999-2001) and also served as Superintendent Minister of the Accra North Circuit, Adabraka (2001-2005).
KNUST Chaplaincy and other Ministries
It was from the Accra North Circuit that Paul was nominated by the Methodist Church Ghana to serve as the president Chaplain of KNUST.
In addition to his primary work as chaplain, he has also been teaching at the Religious Studies Department of the University.
Paul has served either as chairman, secretary or member of a number of committees in the Church and at the KNUST.
These include: the University Syllabus Review Committee of the Methodist University College Ghana; Health Services Management Board of KNUST; Queen Elizabeth II Hall Council – KNUST; Committee of University Ecumenical Chaplaincy Board KNUST Local Council of Churches, Kumasi.
The Minister for Works and Housing, Francis Asenso-Boakye, says the Takoradi Market Circle drainage system reconstruction work, has been captured in the Ministry’s 2021 flood control program.
Francis Asenso-Boakye, while on a two-day tour of the Western Region, gave the assurance after inspecting the main drainage system at Essikafoambatem Number Two, which has been found to be the cause of regular flooding within the Takoradi Market Circle area.
“The Western Regional Minister has been talking to me about the flooding situation around the Takoradi Market Circle area. 
So I took advantage of my tour of the region to come and have a first-hand look at the major problem here. Prior to this, officials of the Hydrological Service Department came here to assess the situation and I can say that it is part of the Ministry’s 2021 Flood Control Program which we are currently in talks with the Finance Ministry for the needed funds to come and start fixing the problem here. 
We are very hopeful that we will get the resources from the Finance Ministry and once we are able to solve the problem at this side of the drainage channel, the issue of flooding around the market would be reduced“, he said.
The Western Regional Minister, Kwabena Okyere Darko Mensah, who toured the sewage system with the Works and Housing Minister, said the fixing of the sewage system would bring a lot of relief to residents of Takoradi
The Minister for Works and Housing also visited two sea defense projects at Aboadze and Amanfokuma, and expressed satisfaction with the quality of work executed by the contractors. He said the two projects are key to the fishing industry and the coastal communities’ existence.
“ I must say that so far I’m impressed with the quality of work done by the contractors. 
The visit has given me the opportunity to see at first hand the progress of work, comparing it with the reports I had received in the office. 
It has also given me the chance to interact with the stakeholders including the communities. Key among them is the fisherfolk who are the direct beneficiaries of these projects. 
The sea defense project has many benefits including protection of lives, property, and livelihoods especially fishing activities which is the mainstay of the economy of the coastal communities. 
The visit has exposed me to some variations that I will go back to the office to discuss and redesign with the consultant to accommodate the needed variations”, he said.
Francis Asenso-Boakye, who was accompanied on his first-day tour of the Western Region by the Managing Director of the State Housing Corporation, Kobina Ampoful Appiah, also visited the State Housing developments at Ituma in the Shama District, as well as some dilapidated Police Quarters at Effiakuma.
The Works and Housing Minister is expecting to finish his tour-day of the Western Region with the inspection of the Axim and Dixcove sea defense projects in the Nzema East Municipality and Ahanta West District respectively.
The Mayor of Accra, Mohammed Adjei Sowah, says the Accra Metropolitan Assembly (AMA) is preparing for the coming rains to avoid a recurrence of flooding within the city.
His assurance comes on the back of the caution by the Ghana Meteorological Agency indicating that the country is set to experience rains in most areas, accompanied by strong winds this year.
The Mayor, in an interview with Citi News, said the necessary precautionary measures are being put in place.
According to him, most of the storm drains are being desilted by the various assemblies in Accra.
“Generally, we are also looking at preparations towards the rains because Accra is typically lying on low land, so anytime it rains heavily, the downflow of the water gets to Accra, and then, unfortunately, we also experience tidal waves which also blocks the water from entering the sea. 
Currently, the Korle lagoon is being dredged by Dreg Masters, with funding from the Ministry of Works and Housing, and the storm drains in Accra are also being desilted by the various assemblies.”
“So in terms of preparations on the water bodies, we are far in advance in making sure that the perennial flooding mostly experienced in Accra will be a thing of the past.”
The Mayor also indicated that the AMA will continue to demolish structures built on waterways, and further cautioned persons who throw solid waste into water bodies to desist from such actions.
According to him, these are the only measures by which the issue of perennial flooding can be curtailed.
“We should also be mindful that climate change has also induced and changed the rainfall pattern. 
The other side is also that people that have built on the waterways. We will continue to pull down those structures but most importantly people who throw solid waste into our drains must also stop.”
The Asantehene, Otumfuo Osei Tutu II, has tasked the Works and Housing Ministry to take steps to address perennial flooding in parts of the country.
The Asantehene expressed concern about the indiscriminate dumping of waste into drains and construction on waterways, which he cited as major causes of flooding.
He said this when the Works and Housing Minister, Francis Asenso-Boakye, paid a courtesy call on him at the Manhyia Palace during a working visit to the Ashanti Region.
Indiscriminate dumping of waste into open drains and the siting of buildings on waterways have often been cited as some of the major causes of perennial flooding in parts of the country.
Some areas within the Kumasi Metropolis and parts of the Ashanti and Greater Accra Regions have been experiencing flooding for many years.
Although there have been some interventions by government to address this situation, human behaviour in some cases is said to be impeding the efforts.
The Asantehene, Otumfuo Osei Tutu II, wants the Works and Housing Ministry to work towards addressing flooding in the country.
“Whenever there is a downpour, there is flooding because the drains are choked. 
Some people dump indiscriminately into the drains and the water is not able to flow freely. 
It was in the era of Busia that he initiated the construction of sewage systems, but that has not been continued by successive governments. 
If we don’t find a permanent solution to the flooding situation, the roads we construct will continue to deteriorate. People have also built on waterways, and this is blocking the water and causing flooding. 
When the flooding happens it is the government that is blamed. People dump into the drains, and they have to be checked. 
The Minister has been given this task and I believe he can execute it. 
Work with all the relevant authorities to address the situation. 
I know with your good upbringing you will be able to make it”, he said.
The Kumasi Metropolitan Assembly (KMA) has identified about 400 structures that have been built on waterways and is taking steps to demolish them.
Asenso-Boakye inspected some drainage projects in the Ashanti Region and called for a concerted effort to tackle flooding.
“Government has in the last four years invested so much in drainage works, but this is not something government alone can do. 
We saw the waste material that was deposited at Atafoa by the Owabi River. 
It means that people are indiscriminately throwing waste into drains and that is not the way to go. 
I have said many times that if this issue of flooding is going to be addressed, then we must see it as a collective responsibility”, he urged.
The Minister also mentioned that a flood control programme is being developed to help address the recurring situation.
The Leadership of the Kejetia Market Association has given management and Board of Directors of the new Kejetia market a two-week ultimatum to address some challenges faced by traders in the market.
According to the traders, since occupying the market spaces early 2020, they have been charged exorbitant electricity bills without any justification.
The traders also complained that although they are barely a year at the market, their biggest fear since occupying the shops has been flooding which may destroy their shops and their goods.
The Public Relations Officer for the Kejetia Traders Association, Andrews Kwofie who spoke at a news conference in Kumasi described the situation as unacceptable.
He called on the management of the market to ensure that all concerns are addressed within the next two weeks.
“Why will an edifice like this with this huge investment have leakages whenever it rains. 
We are telling management to immediately come to the aid of traders. 
There is always flooding when it rains here. 
We will consider a very drastic action if our concerns are not addressed.”
Some of these traders were selling on pavements and streets within the Central Business District (CBD) in the metropolis until they were asked to relocate to the Kejetia Market.
The directive was opposed by several traders who had raised concerns about exorbitant charges for the relocation.
However, the Chief Executive Officer for the Kumasi Metropolitan Assembly (KMA),  Osei Assibey Antwi insisted on the relocation, arguing that the decision was not a unilateral one.
The public has been cautioned to avoid walking or driving through flood waters as the rainy season peaks in Southern Ghana.
“Sometimes, a stretch of running water might seem easy to wade or swim through, but strong currents could easily sweep you off and carry you away when you attempt to swim or wade your way through.”
Mr Richard Amo-Yartey, Director for Inspectorate at the Headquarters of the National Disaster Management (NADMO), in an interview with the Ghana News Agency, also cautioned motorists against driving through flood waters, adding that many cars were swept away because drivers had underestimated the strong currents within seemingly harmless flood waters.
He said flood waters, even if one could safely swim or wade through them, also often carried dangerous objects such as faecal matter and other forms of disease-causing material and dangerous reptiles that could easily harm a human.
“It is often a much better option to be patient and wait for flood waters to recede than to risk harm that could easily be avoided,” said Mr. Amo-Yartey.
He also cautioned people staying within places that are prone to flooding and urged them to relocate to safer places to avoid the inconveniences of flooding during the rainy season.
Mr Amo-Yartey reminded the public that while the government was always working around the clock to ensure the welfare of people, individuals had the responsibility of ensuring their safety.
“The rains are here with us. 
People should be alert and stay wary of the dangers of the season, to remain safe,” he said.
Mr Amo-Yartey said NADMO was educating communities on how to stay safe in the face of floods and other ill effects of the rainy season.
He urged people in emergency situations to call the hotlines of NADMO, which are 112 or 0299350030.
Meanwhile, the Ghana Meteorological Agency (GMet) has urged the public to read its daily and weekly forecast on the website to plan their activities.
A four-hour downpour last Saturday caused flooding in many parts of Southern Ghana, including Kasoa, Weija, Adentan and many others.
Many people had to wait for some hours before they could leave or return to their homes, because of heavy flooding.
Several communities in the Nanumba South District of the Northern Region continue to suffer as floods continue to wreak havoc in homes and farms.
Some residents living close to the Oti river are counting their losses following heavy rains on Sunday, October 11, 2020, that got the several communities flooded.
Roads have been cut off making it difficult for people to access the district capital for basic needs.
The communities include Chichagi, Lahato, Egambo, Mualaa, all in the Nanumba South District.
Buildings have collapsed, farms submerged and bridges washed off.
The people say they have no place to lay their heads and are calling on the authorities to come to their aid.
“All our belongings have been submerged in the floods, I have nowhere to go. 
What to eat is even a problem. 
We need the government to support us. All my belongings are gone,” a victim said.
“All my properties are gone. 
All I have left are the clothes I have on. 
I am begging the government to help put up our structures again,” another victim shared
The District National Disaster Management Organisation (NADMO) Coordinator, Yaw Kojo Kumah Edward also appealed for support for the victims.
“Several buildings have collapsed. We can no longer identify the areas. 
We have about 157 people identified, and we are still counting. 
We are appealing to the government, religious bodies, and the NGOs to come to our aid. 
Most of these people have no one to look up to. 
They survive majorly on farming, and as their farms have been submerged in the floods, they have nothing to feed on.”
The Municipal Chief Executive (MCE), West Mamprusi in the North East Region, Aremeyaw Somo Lucky, says the GHS100,000 presented by the Vice President, Dr. Mahamudu Bawumia in support of flood victims has been disbursed.
Dr. Bawumia offered the money with an assurance that the government will assist in rebuilding the houses for the displaced victims in the area.
Villages were submerged in floodwaters following the massive torrential rains that forced the banks of three dams to break, allowing the water from the dams to rush onto the villages.
Acres of farmlands were submerged while some livestock were carried away by the floodwaters, a situation that led to the donation from Dr. Bawumia to enable the affected victims to get some relief items.
The Director-General of the National Disaster Management Organization (NADMO), Eric Nana Agyemang-Prempeh, has explained that the perennial spillage of the Bagre Dam in Burkina is a contributory factor to the recent flooding in parts Accra.
A downpour over the weekend left many parts of Accra, including Weija and its adjoining communities flooded, restricting movement and causing damage to property.
“Previously, the spillage from the Bagre Dam was flowing at 4-8million gallons per minute, but now it’s flowing 29 million gallons per minute at a very tough speed to Ghana, therefore almost all the rivers in the country are full, so the little rainfall, then it floods everywhere”
The NADMO Director General said this during a visit to some flood prone areas in the Greater Accra Region.
According to NADMO, this year, it collaborated with Municipal and District Assemblies to dredge several drains in anticipation of the rains, but the rivers could not absorb the overflow from the Bagre Dam.
Mr. Agyemang Prempeh advised those who take advantage of the rain to throw to dump rubbish into already choked drains, to put a stop to the practice; as it contributes to the flooding in Accra.
The NADMO Director General, together with the Greater Accra Regional Director, Archibold Cobbina, MP for Weija-Gbawe, Tina Naa Ayeley Mensah, and MP for Bortianor Ngleshie Amanfrom, Sylvester Tetteh, visited some victims in some of the flood prone areas at Weija- Gbawe and Bortianor Ngleshie Amanfrom.
They sympathized with the affected victims and promised to assist them with some relief items.
The Municipal Chief Executive for West Mamprusi Assembly in the North East Region, Issahaku Aremeyaw Somo, has said he escaped a robbery attack on Monday, October 12, 2020.
This happened when the MCE was travelling to communities to disburse money to victims of recent flooding in the region.
Speaking on Eyewitness News, Mr. Somo said he was able to escape the attack because security personnel came in time to open fire on a group of robbers who attempted to block his convoy.
“Fortunately the police came in. But then at the time, they had already shot a motor rider on the leg. 
I was with the chiefs distributing the money when they brought him. 
They quickly rushed him to the hospital. 
I was alarmed, so I quickly had to go back to Walewale.”
“That particular road is noted for robbery. Because of that, we mounted a number of security checks in the area and that had helped in curbing the attacks. 
But recently, the police had an accident in the area, and so they had toned down a bit, so I am sure these robbers wanted to take advantage of the situation. 
But luck evaded them,” he added.
On Thursday, October 1, 2020, four villages, Gaagbini, Dimia, Tinkaya, and Banawa were submerged in floodwaters following massive torrential rains that forced the banks of three dams to break, allowing the water from the dams to rush onto the villages.
The government gave GHS100,000 to the MCE to support flood victims in the municipality. 
Mr. Somo said he suspects the robbers may have come after the money in his possession.
“We are suspecting they came after the GHS100,000. Since then, I have had to move about with security. 
That way, my security is assured while disbursing the money.”
The Ghana Water Company Limited (GWCL) has begun spilling excess water from the Weija Dam.
This is due to the downpour in the catchment area of the Densu River basin.
It began the spillage on Sunday, October 11, 2020.
“The safe operating level of the Weija Dam is 47ft, however, the heavy rains shot the dam level from 46.8ft to 48.4ft in less than 24 hours, prompting the spillage immediately to prevent it from possible collapse,” the GWCL explained in a statement.
It thus said it has informed the National Disaster Management Organization (NADMO), the National Security, Bureau of National Investigation (BNI), Chiefs, District Assembly, opinion leaders and all stakeholders downstream the dam “to evacuate the area immediately to avoid any eventuality.”
The affected communities include Tetegu, Oblogo, Pambros Salt, Lower McCarthy Hill, Lower Weija, Bojo Beach, Ada Kopey and surrounding communities.
The company is expecting more rain in the area and has said it, along with NADMO and other sector agencies, “are making arrangement for the provision of water and other services to the people displaced by the flood.”
Residents of Weija had to contend with flooding this past weekend due to a downpour.
They have been appealing for storm drains to help with the drainage of run-off water.
Victims of flooding in the West Mamprusi municipality are still crying out for help from the state after being displaced.
A day after the government donated GHS100,000 and relief items to floods victims of Thursday torrential rain in parts of the West Mamprusi municipality, the flood victims are yet to receive improved help.
Speaking to Citi News, some displaced persons complained about hunger as food meant for the victims from the assembly are not forthcoming.
A victim of the flooding complained about the conditions in the schools being used as havens saying, “for the past three days, we have been finding it difficult to fend for ourselves.”
“We have only been provided with two classrooms to live in. 
We are over 300, but because of the limited space, we the men have left the classrooms for the women and children while we hang around outside. The food is not enough, they brought in 77 food packs whereas we are close to 300 in number.”
“We do not know what to do now, the DCE allowed us to move in here until further notice. 
The food they provide is not enough, we are forced to hand them over to the children while we strive to survive. 
They claim they have brought us food, but we are not feeling the impact. We have nothing to survive on, with no helper,” another lamented.
“The said amount donated to us by the government has not been disbursed yet, the DCE and NPP parliamentary candidate took the money to Walewale but we have not heard from them,” he added.
Vice President Dr. Mahamudu Bawumia cut short his campaign tour of the Greater Accra Region to visit the victims of the devastating floods.
Upon arrival, he donated GHS 100,000 to food victims.
Four villages; Gaagbini, Dimia, Tinkaya and Banawa have been the hardest hit in the municipality.
On Thursday, the villages were submerged in floodwaters following massive torrential rains that forced the banks of three dams to break, allowing the water from the dams to rush onto the villages.
Acres of farmlands were submerged while some livestock was carried away by the floodwaters.
A herdsman has been arrested in Tamale in the Northern Region for allegedly swindling the Tamale District Police Commander, Chief Superintendent, Iddrisu Tanko Issifu.
In his quest to become a cattle farmer, Chief Superintendent Tanko Issifu, last year, allegedly entered into a barter agreement with two herdsmen– Osman Mumuni and Seidu Braimah– who promised to sell to him cattle.
According to a police statement, the two herdsmen initially took a sum of GHS36,100.00 to supply the police chief with 53 cattle.
The two later entered into an agreement to buy his Toyota Scion with registration number GW 7-Z in exchange for 40 cattle.
After that, they again allegedly took Chief Superintendent Tanko Issifu’s Land Cruiser Prado with Registration number GS 5939-11 with his consent to supply additional 300 cattle.
According to the police statement, the district commander also gave the suspects another GHS56,000.00 to buy 70 more cattle.
The statement further indicated that, as part of their agreement, the suspects were to take care of the cattle, which numbered about 556.
However, the District Police Commander in an attempt to inspect the animals yielded no result as the herdsmen allegedly kept giving him excuses.
“When he later tried to check up on the suspects and the animals numbering about 556 cattle and 40 calves, they told him the cattle had been sent to a far distance for grazing but failed to show the whereabouts of the animals,” the statement noted.
“He went to the location of the suspects to inspect the animals, but to his disappointment no human being was found, let alone cattle.”
According to the statement, the police chief was alarmed and caused the arrest of one of the suspects while efforts are underway to apprehend the second suspect, Seidu Braimah, who is currently on the run.
The Regional Coordinating Director for Ahafo Region, Ebenezer Amoah has admonished youth in the region to desist from shying away from informal sector jobs and take advantage of such avenues to boost their economic lives.
Youth groups across the region on Wednesday, June 30 met the leadership of the region at the Regional Coordinating Council to present to them developmental challenges they face.
Krontihene for Ntotroso Traditional area, Nana Akofo Amankonah I, addressing the issues also challenged the youth to make career choices that will help them to be innovative in order to meet the diverse available target markets.
“If you’re a tailor, you can decide to master producing only boxer shorts and prosper, same as vulcanizers. One can choose to master and work on just truck tyres or tyres of small cars”, he said.
The National Youth Authority (NYA) in collaboration with ActionAid has been organizing workshops throughout the region for youth groups to deliberate on the issues confronting youth development.
ActionAid Ghana through the implementation of its three years project; Promoting Employment Opportunities for Young people in Ghana (PEOY) is empowering young people with skills and knowledge in livelihood activities and encouraging their participation in decision-making that affects their lives.
These workshops sought to establish linkages between PEOY beneficiaries, Youth Parliament members, Young Women Movement, Activists and give them a bigger voice and enable them to grow into a movement for youth advocacy in the region.
Amongst key issues presented and discussed were youth unemployment, substance abuse, teenage pregnancy, and terrible road networks.
According to KPMG Global Mining Institute, Ghana presents several opportunities in the mining sector, especially in the gold industry. Statistically, it is proven that Gold represents Ghana’s major export commodity, providing, 50% of GDP, (Ministry of Land and Natural Resources (MLNR), 2003).
Ghana is also the second-largest gold producer in Africa, after South Africa and the 10th largest globally with Peru being the sixth largest producer. 
The other important mineral resources are oil, diamond, bauxite and magnesium.
Mining has become a controversial business everywhere. 
The continuous debate of the mining business is due to its great economical contribution to the country. 
Within the past few decades, Ghana’s mining sector specifically the small-scale mining sector has been defaced with arguments mainly as a result of its threats to sustainable development. 
Small scale mining in Ghana generally refers to artisanal mining of precious minerals particularly gold and diamond. Artisanal and Small-scale mining is a practice that involves rudimentary techniques of mineral extraction, highly manual processes, hazardous working conditions, and frequently affecting the human and environmental bodies negatively.
In Ghana, it is estimated that two to three million people are engaged in this activity; about 170,000 are directly or indirectly into illegal mining (galamsey) as they solely depend on it for their livelihoods.
The term ‘galamsey’ is a local dialect, coined from the statement, “Gather and Sell” as it explains what these workers do. 
This activity is flagged as a lucrative venture and a quickest way of earning an income which makes local Ghanaians, particularly the youth the active participant in this sector. 
Illegal mining seeks to be the only alternative of alleviating poverty to the people involved but in two folds perpetuates poverty through high sensitivity to physical hazards, illness, accidents, and lack of knowledge about more efficient, safer, and environmentally friendly techniques.
In recent cases, there has been a season of tragedy as it has been recorded that people involved in this activity lost their lives as a result of being trapped when a pit collapses or a landslide occurs and affect the water bodies. 
On Wednesday, November 11, 2009, an estimated 30 illegal miners lost their lives as a result of landslides at Dopoase in the Wassa Amenfi East District of the Western region where 14 out of the 18 retrieved corpses were women.
Similarly, there was another tragedy at Dunkwa-On-Offin in 2010 in the Central Region where several miners were trapped in a pit when it caved on them near the Offin river resulting in the death of 100 miners. The inception of this activity is not affiliated with a single body or organization. Citizens are equally to be criticized. 
It is known that this activity takes place under cover of darkness or hidden places such as forests, existing farms, river beds, valley and remote areas aided by foreigners especially the Chinese.
Since 2000, about 50,000 Chinese gold miners have migrated to Ghana to engage in small-scale mining.
The rapid relocation of these foreigners was mainly driven by the high demand for gold prices, increasing cultural corporation between China and Ghana and the largely informal nature of the illegal mining. 
The remodel traditional method of using pickaxe, shovel and pan to new technology such as the use of excavators cause environmental threats and social conflicts where the indigenes attacked the armed Chinese miners. Consequently, there is a proven climatic and social change due to the nature of the work, bad weather conditions, and degradation of natural resources which disturbs human survival in these artisanal environments. 
The primitive techniques of these miners which are illegal and unregulated contaminate the water as a result of the discharged sewage which contains toxic chemicals such as cyanide and other organic chemicals used in the processing of mineral ores. These chemicals together result in waste with high acid levels which either seep into underground water or flow into the environment posing danger to the people.
The unchanged attitudinal behaviour of the political actors, law enforcement bodies, local chiefs and farmers towards the practice of illegal mining make this activity thrive. The law enforcement body provides these foreigners with guns to defend themselves from locals on the grounds of generating a beneficial budget for the police and immigration authorities. 
There is also a lack of political will to combat this activity which is evidently because these politicians also benefit from these activities; the political leaders send threats to the appointed leaders of the task force to release the seized excavators or lose their jobs which derails the nation’s fight against galamsey.
Chiefs and landowners of these mining areas are rendered powerless when the foreigners proceed to work on their lands with a granted permission from the lawmakers in the state. 
In a quest to fight this activity, in May 2013, former President, John Mahama set up an inter-ministerial task force to roll out illegal small-scale miners where they were able to deport 4592 Chinese officials by mid-July 2013 but despite their efforts failed to entirely wipe out illegal mining activities. Similarly in August 2017, the task force arrested over 1370 miners including 247 Chinese officials with consequent arrest 33, 15, 7, 24 in April, June, August and September respectively.
Although these actions brought about diplomatic dilemmas to Ghana, President Nana Akufo-Addo on his visit to China in 2019 assured the Chinese officials on how the country remains keen to encourage economic corporation but would not hesitate to persecute China national involved in the illegal mining activity to ease the diplomatic tension between these two countries. 
In a scientific published article by the World Bank titled, Strategy for African Mining, it is estimated that some 30,000 people are employed within the legalized segment of the Ghana small-scale mining sector. Minerals Commission and Ghana Chamber of Mines, also noted that 60 per cent of the country’s mining labour force is, in fact, employed at small-scale mines.
Regional employment assessments have estimated that over 6,000 illegal and 117 registered artisanal gold mines are found in Tarkwa alone. 
Comparatively, the country’s top three major unfamiliar organizations by and large produce over 30% of the country’s gold creation and add to above half of the government incomes. 
It is in this margin both in terms of the output and labour force that the government must formalize galamsey practices as it would represent a critical fiscal boost for the country not disputing the fact on how it is publicly known as a challenge for the government to set policies on how to benefits from the artisanal and small-scale mining while minimizing the negative consequences mining activities.
Similarly in August 2017, the task force arrested over 1370 miners including 247 Chinese officials with consequent arrest 33, 15, 7, 24 in April, June, August and September respectively. 
Although these actions brought about diplomatic dilemmas to Ghana, President Nana Akufo-Addo on his visit to China in 2019 assured the Chinese officials on how the country remains keen to encourage economic corporation but would not hesitate to persecute China national involved in the illegal mining activity to ease the diplomatic tension between these two countries.
In a scientific published article by the World Bank titled, Strategy for African Mining, it is estimated that some 30,000 people are employed within the legalized segment of the Ghana small-scale mining sector. Minerals Commission and Ghana Chamber of Mines, also noted that 60 per cent of the country’s mining labour force is, in fact, employed at small-scale mines. Regional employment assessments have estimated that over 6,000 illegal and 117 registered artisanal gold mines are found in Tarkwa alone.
 
The government must however educate and provide the miners in the rural areas the needed resources in terms of tools for a safer conducive environment and preserve the natural bodies. 
The means of controlling the galamsey activities do not entirely depend on the political actors. 
It must be recognized as a collective effort, from political actors, chiefs, the law enforcement body and the citizenry.
To conclude, this research has addressed a number of significant issues which shows that illegal mining if not harnessed would stall the country’s development and the smooth running of the country.
The 1992 constitution of the Republic of Ghana states that chiefs are the overall custodians of the customary land however, the state own the resources underneath or on the surface of the land. 
It is in this regard that the government must involve the traditional leaders and other stakeholders and be on the same page in relation to the laws and policy making.
The government should employ ways to enlighten and aid the people involved in this activity to improve their standard of living. 
This can be done by educating them on the prices, providing them with well-equipped tools, creating a forum where miners can share their experiences on the financial means of production and processing respectively.
The government can grant university graduates from the mines sector to regulate these activities. 
Mining schools in the country with the authorization of the government can establish a consulting firm where the students and graduates can be recruited as monitoring officials instead of the security officials which also helps reduce unemployment in the state.
The government should register the small scale or galamsey business under a well-structured established corporation with norms and values to uphold which will help regulate and manage this activity to ensure an effective and environmentally friendly mining techniques.
It is quite known and asserted that abolishing galamsey is not the best option for the government. 
The state can, however, curb the problems by enforcing fixed regulations in the various mining codes with regards to environmental restoration. 
For instance, strict rules should be adopted to ensure that miners cover their pits when they finish their operation.
The Municipal Chief Executive for Asante Akyem South, Alexander Frimpong has denied his involvement in illegal mining activities in the area.
The MCE was accused of being complicit in a recent galamsey activity that resulted in the death of one person.
But the MCE in an interview with Citi News denied this claim
“Some persons who were pained and think that I contributed to their defeat are spreading such falsehood.”
The Assembly Member for the area also reiterated that Mr. Frimpong had never been involved in galamsey activities.
Our attention has been drawn to a media release on the subject as indicated above.
The said release is about a collapsed galamsey pit which killed one person at Obroni Junction near Ofoase.The story attributes the galamsey pit as one owned by our Municipal Chief Executive, Hon. Alexander Frimpong and the constituency Youth Organizer, Mr. Simon Agyemang.
We want to state categorically clear that, it is untrue the pit belongs to our Honorable MCE and constituency Youth Organizer. 
It’s another attempt by people who are trying all negative means to destroy the reputation of our hardworking MCE and incite His Excellency the president against him.
We want to repeat here that,our MCE is not a galamseyer,he has never engaged in galamsey activities and he will never engage in acts he is helping the president to fight and eliminate. As indicated in previous press release, Hon. Alexander Frimpong is fighting the galamsey menace in the municipality. His hard work and directives has led to the arrest of 3 galamsey operatives who are currently facing trial at the Juaso Circuit Court.
Our investigations has it that the person behind the twisted story is one particular aspirant in the last NPP constituency parliamentary primaries and his cohorts who are also interested in getting their candidate nominated by the president for the position of MCE.
According to the municipal police commander and the Assembly member for the area,the said mining pit is an old pit of about 20years. 
The Children had gone there in search of gold as they have occasionally been doing and unfortunately the pit collapsed and in the process killed one of them.
A leading member of the opposition National Democratic Congress (NDC), Sylvester Mensah, has described as lazy and reckless the burning of excavators used for illegal mining in various parts of the country.
He said the excavators can be put to better use, to develop communities and create value for the economy rather than destroy them.
In a Facebook post, the former NHIS head said the current approach smacks of ‘insufficient thinking process’.
The government in a renewed fight against illegal mining across the country especially in forest reserves and on water bodies has deployed hundreds of soldiers to remove illegal miners from different parts of the country.
Reports received so far from the grounds show that as part of the operations of the security officers, they burn excavators and other equipment used in the illegal mining process.
But according to Sylvester Mensah, the government must rethink the approach of burning the excavators.
He said a future NDC government will not burn seized galamsey excavators.
“A future NDC government would not burn seized galamsey excavators. Clearly, it is a lazy and reckless mindset. 
Earthmoving equipment can be put to many other important uses, in many communities in this country,” he said.
“Considering this nauseous Bawumia economy with its self-inflicted epileptic power supply, one would have thought that this government, having dispossessed galamsey owners of their equipment, would put them to alternative uses to develop our communities and generate value for the economy… 
We are witnessing the manifestation of an insufficient thinking process.”
The Minister for Defence, Dominic Nitiwul in a recent press engagement said in this new phase of the military operation, one wooden accommodation facility, ten plastic chairs, 28 excavators, 18 water pumping machines, eight (8) industry batteries, five canoes and 267 Changheng machines had been destroyed.
The rest are 21 new pumping machines, two (2) industry machines, a KIA Truck, two (2) pump action guns were also seized.
The case of the 33 supposed National Security operatives who were arrested for galamsey activities in the Eastern is getting more intense as the Kaneshie District Court refused jurisdiction to hear the case and grant them bail.
Drama unfolded when the court turned down an invitation to grant bail to 11 of the suspects who appeared before it.
The prosecutor, ASP Sylvester Asare, was in court to secure a remand order to enable the state to gather evidence and make its case against the suspects.
A case of possession of firearms without lawful excuse is being built against them.
But the defence lawyers drew Her Worship, Ama Adomako Kwakye’s attention to Section 192 (2) of the Criminal and Offences Act 1960, Act 29 as amended, which requires the Attorney General’s written consent in such matters before the court can entertain it.
Her Worship Adomako Kwakye, on the basis of the provision, declined to hear the case.
She said the consequence of the provision was that there was neither a case of bail nor remand properly before the court to be heard, and subsequently released the suspects.
But as is the situation in such cases, and was to be expected, all 11 suspects were immediately re-arrested.
According to the prosecution, the 33 accused persons presented themselves as operatives of the National Security set up but in fact, are not.
The suspects have been accused of visiting several mining communities in and around the Eastern and Ashanti Regions to undertake illegal mining activities.
They are said to have threatened residents, demanded and seized unspecified kilos of gold and varying sums of money from certain galamsey operators acting in the name of National Security.
The state submitted that security agencies picked intelligence sometime in January that the accused persons armed with rifles were undertaking illegal mining activities in the name of the National Security and harassing communities around the Eastern Region.
And on May 4, 2021, a team of plain-clothed and uniformed personnel from the National Security Secretariat were dispatched to the Akenteng forest reserve, near Osinease in the Eastern Region where they rescued the accused persons from the clutches of angry youth.
This operation the Prosecution said was supported by officers from the Eastern Regional Police Command.
The accused persons were subsequently transported to Accra for interrogations during which they are said to have admitted that they were not National Security Operatives.
They, however, claimed ownership of the weapons retrieved.
They are also said to have disclosed that they were in the forest to undertake reconnaissance.
The exhibits, according to the prosecution, included a Tudor short gun, pump-action, two shotguns, assault rifles and 10 rounds of ammunition as well as a cougar pistol.
The prosecution said exhibits retrieved from the accused persons include a Tudor shotgun, a pump-action shotgun, assault rifles and 10 rounds of ammunition as well as a cougar pistol.
The team also retrieved from the accused persons 12 Gotta handsets, three handcuffs, four shovels and an electronic shocker.
The Ghana Armed Forces have commenced the second phase of their security operation to fight illegal small-scale mining.
A statement from the Ministry of Information said the exercise, dubbed ‘Operation Halt II’ is aimed at “removing all persons and logistics involved in mining on water bodies”
“The new phase of the operation focuses on the tributaries of the Pra River, which have also been significantly affected by the activities of illegal miners,” the statement added.
The Ghana Armed Forces have also commenced armed patrols of the Pra river.
The operation is being undertaken by four hundred (400) men of all ranks.
Ghanaians have been advised to stay away from mining in water bodies to avoid any action by the forces
As part of recent efforts against illegal mining, 200 military personnel were deployed to flush out illegal miners destroying water bodies in the country.
The directive was based on the suggestions the government received during the Stakeholder Dialogue on Small Scale Mining which took place from April 14 to 15, 2021.
The Asantehene, Otumfuo Osei Tutu II is urging the government to ensure greater involvement of chiefs in the fight against illegal mining.
He says the seeming neglect of chiefs in the fight may have resulted in its failure in the past hence the need to do things differently.
Speaking at the Manhyia Palace after some officials of the Minerals Commissions called on him, the Asantehene says chiefs must be made to play a role in the fight against galamsey.
He said chiefs must also be involved in the process of issuance of mining permits, adding that the failure to get chiefs involved in such processes, forces them to get involved in the illegal mining instead, hence jeopardizing the fight.
“The constitution even says all minerals are vested in the president, but we know that the gold is vested in the soil and the local chief is in charge of the soil. 
A stranger can be given a permit to mine on the chief’s land but the maps and licence for mining are given in Accra. 
Because the chiefs are not involved, they also join in the galamsey. 
If the chief is involved in the process, this will not happen,” he said.
Illegal mining locally referred to as ‘galamsey’, has, over the past few years, dominated national conversations following a major campaign by Citi FM highlighting the devastating effects of the practice.
The fight against galamsey is assuming a wrong turn due to Government’s own past failures in the fight. As a people, we must be worried because the havoc caused by galamsey activities is life-threatening and has the potential to endanger the collective future that we all envisage.
The activities of galamseyers are gradually leading to very serious irredeemable environmental situations which include loss of biodiversity, clean water and pollution of our soil.
It is obvious that the institutional framework for the implementation of small-scale mining laws has completely broken down with corruption taking center stage. 
The failure of the Akufo Addo led government to deal with the situation within the last four years shows its weakness and incompetence in dealing with the issue of galamsey.
The just ended Stakeholders dialogue was a confirmation of the failed approach adopted by the Government in the past four years. 
We hoped that from the said Conference, new methodologies of dealing with the menace would have emerged for adoption.
Sadly, the Statement issued by the Minister of Information conveying the resolutions of the Stakeholders’ forum as a way of dealing with the menace is a false start.
The statement at best is hollow and lacks clarity as to the direction of these new operations.
The content of the statement suggests Government is involved in the business as usual and does not provide any critical out-of-the-box solution to addressing the challenge.
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo for the umpteenth time, indicated his commitment to fighting the phenomenon of illegal small-scale mining, commonly known as galamsey in Ghana.
The President reiterated he will do everything in his power in his second term to bring the galamsey menace to a halt in Ghana during a courtesy call on him by  Okyehene Osagyefo Amoatia Ofori Panin and the Akyem Abuakwa Traditional Council.
Prior to the meeting, the government through the Ministry for Lands and Natural Resources had held a two-day National Consultative Dialogue on Small-Scale Mining that, among other things, urged the government to firmly enforce the country’s laws on mining.
In furtherance of the resolutions of the final communiqué of the Stakeholder Dialogue on Small Scale Mining, and to ensure that mining within water bodies is immediately stopped; the President of the Republic, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, has authorized the Ghana Armed Forces, to commence an operation to remove all persons and logistics involved in mining from Ghana’s water bodies.
Government seems to be adopting the same failed approach in the fight against galamsey, hence there is no guarantee of improved results. We cannot continue to do things the same way and expect a different result.  
Water bodies that were regaining their natural state at the height of the fight against galamsey are becoming polluted again due to the increasing activities of illegal miners in various parts of the country.
In July 2017, President Akufo Addo served notice that he was prepared to put his Presidency on the line in his quest to fight illegal mining. 
However, considering the state of galamsey today and its devastating effect on the environment including land, rivers, and water bodies, it is clear to all and sundry that the President’s fight against galamsey has failed.
The President, having failed to fight the menace, the honorable thing to do would be for him to resign from office to uphold his integrity. 
Dishonorably, we are again treated with a plethora of promises and assurances. 
Words they say are cheap. 
The President must walk the talk. 
This galamsey matter is serious and must be given all the needed attention as a people. 
Water is life.
Delivering a speech at the National Dialogue on Small Scale Mining on Wednesday, April 14, 2021, the President said interestingly that although he is determined to enforce the laws on individuals who are caught engaging in ‘Galamsey’, he will not activate them based on mere allegations. 
No Ghanaian has said the President should convict persons based on hearsay or lack of evidence.
In any case, the President does not have the power to convict any person in Ghana – only the Courts do. 
The President’s position again demonstrates the seeming lack of interest in President Akufo Addo to tackle the galamsey menace head-on and crack down the whip on corruption.
This is in sharp contrast to promises by then Presidential Candidate of the New Patriotic Party, Nana Akufo Addo, who indicated his readiness to differently fight corruption through, among other things, the introduction of the Anas principle, the mode of investigation used by one of Africa’s ace investigative journalists, Anas Aremeyaw to create a new culture of fear for corrupt practices.
It is therefore not surprising that up to date practically no sanctions have been meted out to Western Regional Secretary of the New Patriotic Party (NPP) and former Secretary of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining, Charles Bissue, for his role in the galamsey fraud scandal despite corruption allegations against him by Anas Aremayaw Anas, whose principle the President promised to adopt in the fight against corruption.  
It is also no wonder that no action has been taken in respect of the missing excavators’ saga.
Till now, no report has been issued by the Operation Vanguard Taskforce to update Ghanaians on their role, challenges, and impact in the fight against illegal mining. 
Indeed, some military officers were caught in a Joy News documentary actively engaged in the activity.
Hence, the resolutions and approach by the Government to adopt similar strategies by involving the military in an activity they have already been engaged in shows the lack of ideas and clear direction by the Government in tackling the phenomenon.
For citizens to be fully confident of the Government’s fight against galamsey, Government must report fully to Ghanaians on the activities of the Operation Vanguard Taskforce and indicate to Ghanaians the whereabouts of the missing excavators.
If the Akufo Addo-led Government wants the full support of Ghanaians in the fight against galamsey, there must be transparent and accountable and be willing to fully disclose who the interest holders are in all these galamsey sites.
Government must be clear on the sanctions it intends to impose on perpetrators as the present state of galamsey operations contravenes citizens’ rights to life, health, environment, and the principles of inter-generational equity. Furthermore, galamsey activities violate Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15.
Mere orders to the military will not address this challenge as many of the officers themselves are complicit in the fight against illegal mining, without any known administrative actions and sanctions against them.
The Member of Parliament (MP) for the Tamale North constituency in the Northern Region, Alhassan Suhuyini. is sceptical about the government’s renewed fight against illegal mining in Ghana.
According to him, the government’s renewed commitment to tackling the menace is “structured to fail”.
His comments come on the back of the recent deployment of 200 military personnel to flush out illegal miners destroying water bodies in the country.
A statement from the Information Ministry said, “In furtherance of the resolution of the final communiqué of the Stakeholder Dialogue on Small Scale Mining on April 14 to April 15, and to ensure that mining within water bodies is immediately stopped; the President of the Republic, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has authorized the Ghana Armed Forces to commence an operation to remove all persons and logistics involved in mining from Ghana’s water bodies.”
“The operation commenced at 0600 hours on Wednesday, April 28, 2021, on the River Pra in the Central and Western Regions of Ghana. 
Two Hundred (200) officers of the Ghana Armed Forces are involved in the operation,” the statement added.
Speaking on Citi TV‘s Breakfast Daily show on Thursday, April  29, 2021, the Tamale North legislator said the government should have supported the regional and district security services to deal with the menace, rather than deploying military men to the mining sites.
“I think this new approach to fighting galamsey, with the deployment of the military, is structured to fail. 
I think the approach should use the regional security councils, the district security councils, and then when they require backup you give them the backup.”
“Let them deal with their operational needs, and then you [government] support from the centre [to help them] carry out these activities.  
This approach will give better results than repeating what we have always done in the past. 
I think that the president should have learnt some very good useful lessons from the first fight since he himself has admitted that the last four years has been a failure, given the amount of money that we have thrown at this fight.”
The Lands and Natural Resources Minister, Samuel Jinapor, has said the fight against illegal mining, locally known as “galamsey”, is at a crossroads.
He is, however, hopeful the fight will be won.
According to him, a lot of policies and programmes have been rolled out to tackle the menace in a more sustainable way.
Speaking at a meeting with Regional Ministers at the Jubilee House, Mr. Jinapor said the government will not renege on the fight against illegal mining in the country.
“Given all that has happened so far with respect to the issues to do with small-scale mining, we are now at a crossroads. In other words, we have had a Consultative National Dialogue and have put in some arrangements to regulate small-scale mining and end the issue of galamsey once and for all in the interest of the nation.”
The government recently renewed its commitment to fight illegal mining at a National Consultative Dialogue on Small Scale Mining, where stakeholders charged the government to take steps to strictly apply the country’s mining laws.
This has led to many actions being taken in that regard.
The government ordered persons undertaking prospecting activities in forest reserves across the country to indefinitely suspend such activities.
It also directed the Minerals Commission to desist from processing or granting any request for the renewal of prospecting licenses in forest reserves.
“The Minister for Lands and Natural Resources hereby directs persons and/or companies engaged in reconnaissance and/or prospecting in Forest Reserves, with or without legal authorization, to suspend such activities until further notice…
The Minister for Lands and Natural Resources has further directed the Minerals Commission, with immediate effect, not to accept, process and/or recommend the grant, including the renewal and/or extension, of reconnaissance and prospecting licenses in Forest Reserves,” a statement from the Lands and Natural Resources Ministry said.
The Minister of Information, Kojo Oppong Nkrumah, says government will soon roll out a sustainability programme on the deployment of soldiers to flush out illegal miners operating in the country’s water bodies.
According to him, this measure is meant to help the government deal with illegal mining issues conclusively.
200 military personnel were deployed on Wednesday, April 28, 2021, to flush out illegal miners destroying water bodies in the country.
The Ghana Armed Forces took this decision based on a directive given it by the President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo.
A statement from the Information Ministry said the operation commenced on the River Pra in the Central and Western Regions.
“In furtherance of the resolution of the final communiqué of the Stakeholder Dialogue on Small Scale Mining on April 14 to April 15, and to ensure that mining within water bodies is immediately stopped; the President of the Republic, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has authorized the Ghana Armed Forces to commence an operation to remove all persons and logistics involved in mining from Ghana’s water bodies.”
“The operation commenced at 0600 hours on Wednesday, April 28, 2021, on the River Pra in the Central and Western Regions of Ghana. 
Two Hundred (200) officers of the Ghana Armed Forces are involved in the operation.”
Mr. Oppong Nkrumah in a subsequent interview with Citi News said all persons mining in the forest reserves will be flushed out.
“The Ministry of Defense and the Ghana Armed Forces would roll out in detail what the sustainability plan is to ensure that this time we get a lot more results even beyond what we got for the first time. 
The forest reserves are no-go areas for mining. 
It’s not about legal or illegal. 
That is why the president has authorised this operation of the Ghana Armed Forces to remove all persons and logistics that are being used for mining, and they are starting on the River Pra.”
A former Minister of Lands and Natural Resources Minister, Inusah Fuseini, says President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo could create a lasting legacy by ending illegal small-scale mining, commonly known as galamsey in Ghana.
According to him, the current generation and future ones will applaud him if he is able to end the menace.
The former Tamale Central legislator’s comments come on the back of recent statements by the president, reiterating his commitment to fighting galamsey..
President Akufo-Addo said he will do everything in his power to bring the menace to an end in his second term, which ends in January 2025.
He noted that major rivers such as the Birim and Ankobrah have been polluted due to the activities of illegal small-scale miners and, as such, he will put more effort into the fight to ensure that future generations are not deprived of the water, mineral and natural resources currently being threatened by galamsey.
“We’ve seen what has happened to River Birim, Ankobrah, and other major water bodies. 
I’ll put a lot of effort into the galamsey fight for Ghanaians to know that I’m serious about the fight so that we can bequeath to the next generation the gold, water, and other resources we inherited from our forefathers. 
Mr. Fuseini has challenged the president to walk the talk by ending the menace in order to help secure Ghana’s future.
“There is more to it than words. 
It is the action that is required, but I agree with the president and challenge him to put in more effort because he has said all the right things. 
Ghana’s ecosystem has taken us a long time to get it where it is and we cannot just watch on and allow a few miscreants to destroy it for their personal gain. 
Our ancestors knew [about] the gold that we have but they never prospected for gold in water bodies, and they never also destroy the forest cover for gold. 
They rather handed to us – this generation – an ecosystem that we were proud of and that we could even beat our chest and say that we are the largest producers of cocoa. 
This is what they handed over to us, what are we handing over to the next generation?”
“We cannot allow these greedy people to destroy it for us. 
We cannot and we must not. The president must act and act now. 
Mr. President, if you can’t create any legacy at all, the lasting legacy will be to mitigate the harmful effects of illegal small-scale mining in this country by banning such activities. 
If you so do, not only this generation but generations yet unborn will applaud you for it.”
Mr. Inusah Fuseini made the call on Citi FM/TV‘s weekend current affairs programme, The Big Issue on Saturday, April 24, 2021.
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has, for the umpteenth time, indicated his commitment to fighting the phenomenon of illegal small-scale mining, commonly known as galamsey in Ghana.
He said he will do everything within his power to bring the menace to an end in his second term, which ends in January 2025.
Nana Akufo-Addo said this when the Okyenhene, Osagyefuo Amoatia Ofori Panin and other leaders of the Akyem Abuakwa Traditional Council paid a courtesy call on him at the Jubilee House on Friday, April 23, 2021.
He noted that major rivers such as the Birim and Ankobrah have been polluted due to the activities of illegal small-scale miners and as such, he will put in a lot of effort into the fight to ensure that future generations are not deprived of the water, mineral and natural resources currently being threatened by galamsey.
“We’ve seen what has happened to River Birim, Ankobrah and other major water bodies. 
I’ll put in a lot of effort into the galamsey fight for Ghanaians to know that I’m serious about the fight so that we can bequeath to the next generation the gold, water and other resources we inherited from our forefathers. 
I intend to do everything within my power in this second term to bring this galamsey menace to a conclusion in Ghana,” he stated.
Illegal mining, locally referred to as ‘galamsey’, has, over the past few years, dominated national conversations following a major campaign by Citi FM highlighting the devastating effects of the practice.
In 2017, Nana Akufo-Addo declared that he was prepared to put his presidency on the line in the fight against galamsey.
His declaration was amidst new measures such as the deployment of police and military personnel to arrest illegal miners across the country and the introduction of a community mining programme aimed at regulating small-scale mining in communities in an environmentally sustainable manner.
Recently, there have been complaints that the water bodies that were regaining their natural state at the height of the fight against galamsey are becoming polluted again due to the increasing activities of illegal miners in various parts of the country.
President Akufo-Addo again made public statements on the development, saying that there is a need for an open discussion on the subject.
The government,t through the Ministry for Lands and Natural Resources, subsequently held a two-day National Consultative Dialogue on Small-Scale Mining that, among other things, urged the government to firmly enforce the country’s laws on mining.
As a result of that dialogue, the Lands Minister directed all persons prospecting or carrying out reconnaissance activities in forest reserves to cease within seven days.
The move is said to be one of many to be rolled out as part of efforts to deal with illegal small-scale mining in Ghana.
The entire cocoa industry in Ghana is at risk of collapse if the European Union (EU) carries out its threat of banning the country from its market.
This is according to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Ghana Cocoa Board (COCOBOD), Joseph Boahen Aidoo.
It follows threats from the EU that it will ban cocoa from Ghana if the negative impact of illegal mining on the country’s environment persists.
Mr. Boahen Aidoo, in an interview with Citi News, called on all stakeholders to help curb illegal mining in a bid to avert the collapse of the cocoa industry.
“This is a major issue because Europe takes about 80 percent of our cocoa exports. 
Should they ban or impose restrictions on us, it will be very difficult for us to sell our cocoa. 
As a nation, we need to take a position on this and fight these illegal mining activities together devoid of politics”, he said.
However, the Union is threatening the ban cocoa from Ghana because areas shown in satellite images to have been forest areas in the 70s and 80s in Ghana have all experienced land degradation in recent times.
Stakeholders in the agricultural value chain have expressed fears about the impact of the development on Ghana’s cocoa sector.
Already, the Deputy Chief Executive in-Charge of Agronomy and Quality Control at COCOBOD, Dr. Emmanuel Agyemang Dwomoh has called for immediate action to be taken to avert the possible sanctions.
“When you take the satellite images, you will see some places in red. The EU thinks that all those places are red because cocoa is causing land degradation [in Ghana], meanwhile, it is as a result of the galamsey activities”, he added.
In January 2021, the Union announced that it will contribute €25 million to enhance the economic, social and environmental sustainability of cocoa production in Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana and Cameroon who are, respectively, the first, second and fifth-biggest cocoa producers, generating almost 70% of the world’s total production.
The European Union (EU) is threatening to ban cocoa from Ghana if the negative impact of illegal mining on the country’s environment persists.
Making a presentation at the ongoing National Consultative Dialogue on Small Scale Mining in Accra today, April 15, 2021, the Deputy Chief Executive in-Charge of Agronomy and Quality Control at COCOBOD, Dr. Emmanuel Agyemang Dwomoh, expressed fears about the impact of the development on Ghana’s cocoa sector.
Currently, Ghana exports 80 percent of its cocoa to the European Union.
Dr. Emmanuel Agyemang Dwomoh believes immediate action must be taken to avert the possible sanctions.
“As we speak, EU is threatening to ban Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire, to impose legislative instrument restrictions on the importation of cocoa from Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire to their courts.”
He said the EU is taking this course of action because areas shown in satellite images to have been forested in the 70s and 80s in Ghana, have all experienced land degradation in the decades since.
“When you take the satellite images, you will see some places in red. The EU thinks that all those places are red because cocoa is causing land degradation [in Ghana], meanwhile, it is as a result of the galamsey activities.”
He further raised concerns about the devastating effects of the galamsey activities on the production of cocoa in Ghana and its exportation.
“The impact of these mining activities on cocoa production is enormous. 
There is crop loss, reduction of crop yield and income, loss of vegetation, the fertility of the crop soil is destroyed and [there’s also] an early dropping of immature pods as a result of the chemicals that they use,” he lamented.
In January 2021, the European Union announced that it will contribute €25 million to enhance the economic, social and environmental sustainability of cocoa production in Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana and Cameroon who are, respectively, the first, second and fifth-biggest cocoa producers, generating almost 70% of the world’s total production.
This funding is to strengthen the partnership between Team Europe (composed of the EU, its Member States, and European financial institutions) and the three cocoa-producing countries and aims at ensuring a decent living income for farmers, halting deforestation and eliminating child labour.
The Member of Parliament (MP) for Ningo-Prampram, Mr. Sam Nartey George, has urged President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo to stop the rhetoric and hit the ground running in the galamsey fight.
In his view, President Akufo-Addo is only paying lip service to the fight against illegal small-scale mining, locally known as galamsey, instead of fighting it head-on.
According to him, the president is only giving Ghanaians nice “soundbites rather than real action”.
The Ningo-Prampram lawmaker insisted that those behind the menace are either government appointees or person aligned to the governing New Patriotic Party and thus urged the President to crack the whip to serve as a deterrent to others.
“Mr. President, it is your party national executives and regional executives, your party people, your presidential staffers, your former ministers who are engaged in the galamsey menace. 
They are the people carrying out small-scale mining and destroying our water bodies. So Mr. President, put your money where your mouth is. If you want to fight galamsey, deal with your own appointees. Stop giving us soundbites and give us real action.”
“The truth is that Mr. President, it is your party people who are doing the galamsey. 
Nobody in the NDC is engaged in it because we don’t control the security agencies that are protecting these illegal miners. We don’t manufacture excavators in this country, they all come through the port. 
So who is giving permits for those excavators to be imported? 
If the government is really committed to fighting the menace, can’t the government place a ban on the importation of all excavators?”
Mr. Sam George made the call on Citi TV‘s Breakfast Daily programme on Thursday, April 15, 2021.
His comments come on the back of the ongoing National Consultative Dialogue, a forum the President is hopeful will come out with a better roadmap for dealing with galamsey activities once and for all.
“Out of this maiden consultative dialogue, I hope we will build a national consensus around a national policy on small scale mining, that promotes a responsible, viable, environmentally sustainable small-scale mining industry, which has discarded the use of mercury, ‘changfangs’ and excavators, which has barred the involvement of foreign nationals, and which has rejected the destruction of our forests, environment and water bodies,” President Akufo-Addo said.
Lands and Natural Resources Minister, Samuel Abu Jinapor wants stiffer punishment for politicians, chiefs and kingpins behind illegal mining in Ghana.
Mr. Jinapor says dealing with such persons will go a long way to help the fight against illegal mining.
Speaking at the opening of a national dialogue on illegal mining in Ghana, Samuel Abu Jinapor said a lot more stringent actions must be taken to deal with the menace.
“How do we name, shame and punish politicians, chiefs, religious leaders and people with money and influence who are promoters of this criminal cartel in this industry?”
Another key question the minister was interested in was: “what kind of enforcement regime is required which bites and does so without fear or favour?”
The National Consultative Dialogue on Small Scale Mining, which will end today, April 15, 2021, is expected to come out with a communiqué on the solution to the illegal mining menace.
The forum has been a two-day roundtable discussion on challenges confronting the small-scale mining sector.
It has had inputs from key mining experts, the Small-Scale Mining Association, the Coalition of Civil Society Against Illegal Small-Scale Mining, among others.
Some stakeholders at the ongoing National Consultative Dialogue on Small Scale Mining have proposed the strict enforcement of mining laws as one of the solutions to the many problems in that sector.
Environmental group A Rocha Ghana has warned that the Ghana Integrated Aluminium Development Corporation (GIADEC) push for bauxite exploration will open doors to illegal mining.
Though the corporation has pledged to ensure safe mining activities, A Rocha feels the illegal activities will be beyond its control.
“The problem observed by GIADEC will only get worse with bauxite mining: building mining roads into closed forests opens up currently inaccessible areas to illegal operators,” A Rocha said in a statement.
“The illegal mining and logging you see today will flourish in the protected area once GIADEC facilitates access for illegal actors,” it added.
A Rocha stressed that mining in in the Atewa forest “will be a terminal cancer that will erode forest integrity and the ecosystem services they provide over time”.
It urged GIADEC to follow in the footsteps of aluminium companies that have agreed not to use raw materials sourced from the Atewa Forest.
Members of the International Union for Conversation of Nature (IUCN) on November 4, 2020, voted to adopt Motion 103 calling for “Urgent measures to safeguard the globally important Atewa Forest in Ghana”.
“If GIADEC is to fulfil its stated commitment to international best practices and standards, the Atewa Forest must be completely off-limits to bauxite mining,” A Rocha said.
The Atewa Forest is a Key Biodiversity Area teeming with thousands of animal species and a source of clean drinking water for more than 5 million Ghanaians.
A Rocha Ghana has read the statements made by GIADEC during a meeting with journalists and published on Monday 5 April and is responding to key points raised.
GIADEC said it rejects as ‘propaganda’ an apparent claim that the whole of Atewa Forest will be destroyed by bauxite mining. 
It says the area it will be ‘playing’ with – a surprising term to use for an activity that will cause so much damage to livelihoods, species, habitats, and clean water – is about 10% or less over 50 years, and would mine 5 million tonnes of bauxite in that time. 
To be clear, civil society’s concerns are over the location proposed for bauxite mining – that is, the mountain tops – as this is within Atewa’s legally protected area and is also the most critical for biodiversity and clean water. Loss of the forest and habitats here would be irreversible and would also cause wider damage to the integrity and ecosystem service provision of a much greater area of forest around it. 
But GIADEC seems to completely miss this point. 
Bauxite mining in Atewa Forest, no matter how small, will be a terminal cancer that will erode forest integrity and the ecosystem services they provide overtime. 
Atewa is a critical forest ecosystem, it is not to be ‘played’ with.
The statement said that participants were briefed on a baseline biodiversity study of the proposed mining area as part of documenting the area’s life forms. 
But this is unnecessary. Several research documents both recent and old have already been published of the species found in Atewa Forest including the proposed mining area. 
These reports show that Atewa Forest contains many endangered and endemic species that would be threatened with extinction if bauxite mining goes ahead. Instead of another biodiversity report, an independent Social and Environmental Impact Assessment (ESIA) is what is urgently needed to document how mining will impact on the forest, species, habitats, ecosystem services, livelihoods and access to clean water. 
An ESIA is supposed to form part of any decision-making process over whether or not a development action should go ahead, but this has not been done.
GIADEC’s statements did claim that reclamation plans have been proposed as well as draft report produced. 
Are these documents publicly available and how can civil society access them for independent examination and validation?
Private sector investors are also urged caution. The IUCN’s Resolution 087 passed in November 2020 urging protection of the Atewa Forest and which received overwhelmingly support, “STRONGLY REQUESTS” all companies in the mining sector not to participate in any mining activities in or near Atewa Forest and all companies using aluminium to ensure that no aluminium from Atewa Forest enters their supply chains”. 
The Concerned Citizens of Atewa Landscape (CCAL) have made it very clear that they do not want mining companies entering their forests and destroying their resources, livelihoods, and clean water sources. 
Civil society supports their stand and urges caution to any private sector company interested in mining bauxite in the Atewa Forest. 
A number of aluminium user companies have already stated their objections to aluminium produced with bauxite from Atewa. 
If GIADEC is to fulfil its stated commitment to international best practices and standards, the Atewa Forest must be completely off limits to bauxite mining.
GIADEC has done one good thing, though, by raising the issue of illegal mining and forest destruction in Atewa Forest, stating we will one day “get up and find that there is no forest at all”. 
Civil society has also made this point countless times over the years. 
The destruction of state gazetted forests by illegal activities should be the concern of any state agency that has the wellbeing of Ghanaians at its centre. 
Citizens should not have to fight our government agencies to ensure that we benefit from the judicious and sustainable use of our natural resources. Or is the government and its agencies deliberately allowing the forest to be decimated by illegal actors, to serve as justification for mining it? A typical case of “give the dog a bad name so you can hang it”? (while communities continue to suffer the impacts?) 
The problem observed by GIADEC will only get worse with bauxite mining: building mining roads into closed forests opens up currently inaccessible areas to illegal operators. 
The illegal mining and logging you see today will flourish in the protected area once GIADEC facilitate access for illegal actors.
There are currently several non-extractive uses for forests such as Atewa Forest that have significant prospects of harnessing green investments that will offer quality green jobs and ensure wellbeing for all.
We urge GIADEC to work with us to explore these green investments for the benefits of Ghanaians today and tomorrow.
The Ghana Water Company Limited in the Eastern Region says activities of illegal small scale miners, popularly referred to as galamsey, continue to hinder water operations.
Currently, the water company is rationing water in most parts of the region and has on numerous occasions shut down water treatment plants at Osino, Bunso, and Kyebi as a result of activities of illegal miners.
As Ghana joins the rest of the world today to commemorate World Water Day, the Eastern Regional Public Relations Officer of the Ghana Water Company Limited, Kwadwo Daase hopes that there is a lasting solution to the galamsey menace which affects its operations.
“The challenge with production and supply of water for us on World Water Day is the raw water source that is the rivers and water bodies which serve as the raw materials for us and our concern for years is the impact of illegal mining or galamsey on these water bodies. 
Anytime we are celebrating World Water Day, we wish that we don’t talk about this menace which is still persisting in areas like Osino, Busum etc. 
Our plant there has to be suspended several times.”
He however called on residents to bear with the water company as it continues with its water demand schedules.
“The water supply cannot meet the demand in Koforidua, Somanya, Odumasi areas, etc. The advent of COVID-19 and the need for people to use water has increased the demand for water. 
We have stretched our plants to the elastic limit so we only have to deal with the only little we have, that is why we are trying to put in this water demand management schedule; whereby we supply this area for two or three days, and we revert to the other side of town which is really helping. There were complaints all over that two or three weeks we are not getting water and when we started this the people are appreciating it. ”
In January 2021, Mr Kwadwo Daase called on the government to streamline the activities of the illegal miners and some road contractors which was affecting water supply.
The GWCL had to shut down the Kyebi treatment plant due to high turbidity as a result of the activities of illegal miners operating along the Birim River.
The Minister for Environment, Science, Technology and Innovation-designate, Dr. Kwaku Afriyie, has targetted the regulation of excavators as a measure to tackle illegal mining.
Speaking during his vetting, Dr. Afriyie cited the introduction of heavy earth moving equipment to small scale mining in 1989 as the day “Ghana’s environmental problems begun.”
He thus said Ghana must regulate excavators “severely.”
To address the problem, Dr. Afriyie suggested that excavators be accounted for and banned.
“We should have a census of excavators in this country, and we should even consider a temporary ban on them.”
Decommission some of them, sell some of them off and then put a ban on some of them and by attrition get the numbers that we can use for small scale mining,” he added further.
The nominee also said the danger posed by chanfans which are used to wash minerals in water bodies should also be banned.
“We should criminalise the unlicensed manufacture of washing plants because you know that washing plant is going to be used to do galamsey in water bodies.”
In addition, he said the current generation of Ghanaians was not entitled to all the mineral resources thus, the overall act of mining should be regulated.
“We should have a law that based on the available resources we have, perhaps no more than 50 square km should be mined at any point in time just like we regulate frequency moderation in this country.”
He hopes to implement these suggestions,  should he take office.
Dr. Afiyie said the threat of illegal mining “will be severely assuaged and this country will be the better for it”.
The Ghana Armed Forces says it has commenced investigations into allegations some of its personnel are protecting illegal mining operations.
Recent media reports suggest that some members of the Ghana Armed forces are complicit in illegal mining activities though the military forms an integral part of the anti-illegal mining taskforce.
In a statement signed by the Director of Public Affairs for the Ghana Armed Forces, Colonel Aggrey Quashie, the Military command says it does not condone such acts and will appropriately sanction any of its personnel complicit in the illegal practice.
“The Ghana Armed Forces has taken notice of media reports alleging that some of its personnel have been involved in providing security for illegal mining operations. 
The Ghana Armed Forces take such allegations seriously as it does not condone such wrongdoing if true.”
“Accordingly, a full-scale investigation has commenced into the allegations and appropriate sanctions to be handed out to any person or persons found out. 
The Ghana Armed forces also assure the general public of its unflinching commitment to the national course,” it added.
In March 2020, the government officially withdraw the military component of its anti-illegal mining taskforce, Operation Vanguard, from the field.
Operation Vanguard started as a Military-Police Joint Task Force set up in 2017 to combat the operations of illegal miners in Ghana.
But taskforce’s operations have been marred by controversy amid allegations of corruption.
In one instance, three soldiers of the task force were investigated for allegedly trying to extort money from illegal miners in the Wassa Akropong area in the Western Region.
The Concerned Small Scale Miners Association has welcomed President Akufo Addo’s call for an open stakeholder discussion on illegal small-scale mining popularly known as galamsey.
The Association says the move is a step in the right direction since all attempts to use security forces to clamp down on the activity has failed to yield the desired results.
The President of the Concerned Small Scale Miners Association, Michael Kojo Peprah in a Citi News interview said President Akufo-Addo’s call vindicates the association on their earlier stance that the deployment of military personnel to clamp down on the illegal activity will not yield any result.
He said the government must bring together all stakeholders and receive their inputs on how best to tackle the phenomenon.
“They should understand that, in the beginning, we told them that all these things about bringing the military will not help. In 1989, they brought the military it failed, 2000, 2012 it all failed. So when do we always do the same things and expect a different result? 
What they have come to realize is that what we were saying is true. They should extend their hand, and we will all come and all the expertise and solutions we have, we will put it on paper and help mother Ghana, so the country will benefit from mining,” he said.
President Akufo-Addo in delivering the last State of the Nation address in his first term on Tuesday, January 5, 2021, said it’s about time the government, traditional leaders and various stakeholders in the mining industry discuss the impact of illegal mining on the country devoid of politics.
“There is one subject…I believe we the people need to have an open conversation, and that is the phenomenon of galamsey. 
Should we allow or not allow galamsey?” President Akufo-Addo said.
“We have to talk about galamsey. We who are leaders owe it to the country to take the subject out of the party political area and have an honest conversation about this menace to our future,” he added.
A former Member of Parliament (MP) for the Bantama constituency and the Executive Director of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Henry Kokofu has called on the flagbearer of the opposition National Democratic Congress (NDC), John Dramani Mahama to stop politicising galamsey issues in the country.
Mr. Mahama has promised to retrieve all confiscated excavators and concessions belonging to small scale miners in the country if he wins the 2020 elections.
According to him, President Akufo-Addo has failed in his promise to fix the problems facing small-scale miners in Ghana.
But Mr. Kokofu believes the NDC flagbearer should be blamed for all the challenges the country is facing in dealing with the menace.
The EPA Executive Director insisted that the activities of the illegal miners heightened during the former President’s tenure.
“I don’t understand the basis for the hypocrisy about the galamsey fight from NDC because it was under their tenure that the activities of galamsay heightened in this country; from 2011, 2012, up to 2014 and leading to 2016.”
“…But for me, it is not about apportioning blame. 
We as a nation through President Akufo-Addo have decided to fight this and that is where the focus should be. 
We shouldn’t focus on the propaganda gimmicks going around saying he will give back the seized excavators. 
So he should stop this propaganda he is doing.”
He made these comments when he appeared on the news review segment of Citi TV’s Breakfast Daily on Thursday, October 22, 2020.
In a related issue, the Minister for Lands and Natural Resources, Kwaku Asomah-Cheremeh has debunked claims that the government has sold a number of the excavators that were seized at the height of the war against illegal mining in Ghana
According to the sector minister, such claims by the NDC that some excavators are missing, sold and stolen do not hold water.
“The number we have is 157 at Adentan, Obuasi, and Tarkwa. 
The number that I have provided are numbers that are on site. 
The place is not walled, they can go and check. The claim by NDC that 500 excavators are missing, sold, and stolen is neither here nor there.”
Mr. Asomah-Cheremeh further challenged any individual who has proof of the said allegations, to produce evidence to authenticate the said transactions.
“I stood at the Prestea-Huni valley area in February and told journalists that the government or the ministry has not done any such thing, but the accusations persist. 
Whoever thinks otherwise should come forward with better particulars,” he dared.
Hundreds of angry miners have vowed not to leave the concession of the Ghana Rubber Estate Limited (GREL) near Adiewoso in the Western Region.
The miners openly resisted moves by uniformed personnel in the Operation Vanguard team to forcefully eject them from the concession.
According to them, they are operating legal community mines and will not leave the site, swearing not to end their operations there since that is their only source of livelihood.
Superintendent Douglas Kumi, the officer commanding for Operation Vanguard in the Western Region said their intention was to invite the leadership of the miners to engage with them on their operations and ascertain if their activities were legal.
He said they are disappointed in the leadership over their inability to control the miners in their conduct hence the security personnel will go back to their station, reorganize themselves and return to the site.
“Looking at the numbers and the situation, we will withdraw and get organized again.”
“We cannot arrest all the people and therefore we have also not inspected their documents to know whether what they are doing is legal or illegal. 
We came with the intention of taking the leadership, sit down with them and know their background… 
But the leadership has proven to me this morning that they will not be able to control the people and if that is so, as police we will go back and reorganize,” he said.
One of the miners who spoke to Citi News said their operations are not illegal.
“This is the community mining project for Ahanta West. This morning, police came here to drive us away. We are not doing this without permission. 
Look at the number of people doing this work, this is not illegal, we are not thieves. 
The government paid for our education at the University for Mines and Technology (UMAT) and opened this community mining project for us. 
Our chiefs engaged the government for us to begin this project. We’ve done nothing wrong,” he said.
The Ghana Rubber Estates Limited, GREL, last week lamented over the illegal occupation of its lands by what it said was politically induced galamsey.
The company said the development threatens their investment of about £550,000.
The natural rubber producers who in 2018 with the support of the One-District-One-Factory begun expansion of its production by 25,000 tons per annum.
This illegal invasion of GREL lands will certainly affect directly the raw material base needed for the two factories and also defeats the purpose of the support GREL had from the One District One Factory Initiative for the construction of the 1st Phase of its new rubber processing factory,” the company said in a statement.
Meanwhile, reacting to the development, the Corporate Affairs Manager of GREL, Perry Acheampong, reacting to the allegations by the galamseyers that they have permits to operate Community Mines after the Operation Vanguard failed to halt their operations said the have not permitted any such activity in their concession.
“Ghana Rubbber Estate Limited has 50-year lease to operate and has not given out any part of our concession in the area for Community Mines. 
In fact, we complained about the galamsey activities in our concession to the assembly which they told us they would investigate. 
If the government at any point approach as they want to to have a portion of our concession for such activity, we are ready to have a discussion on it but what is going on there is illegal since we haven’t given out any part.”
“The forcible take-over of GREL lands by several communities for Galamsey activities is an act of illegality that has to be condemned and the instigators or perpetrators brought to book. 
This illegal invasion of GREL lands will certainly affect directly the raw material base needed for the two factories and also defeats the purpose of the support GREL had from the One District 
One Factory Initiative for the construction of the 1st Phase of its new rubber processing factory. 
It also puts at risk Ghana Rubber Estates Limited since the availability of land is very key to its existence, hence, without the availability of land for its nucleus plantation GREL will not be able to operate…
The activity if not stopped could affect an estimated area of 350 acre part of GREL Estate Division 3 located near Adeiwoso on the Apimenim-Elubo Highway. The area was planted with rubber in 1960’s and GREL recultivated it with rubber again in 2010. 
The investment done by GREL from 2010 to date is about £550,000 which could be lost if they are not stopped. 
GREL could also lose 3.5million of revenue over the next 30 years if that area is destroyed.”
Social commentator Sidney Casely-Hayford has described the government’s reported plans to use drones to fight illegal small mining after restructuring Operation Vanguard as a waste of time.
Speaking on The Big Issue, Mr. Casely-Hayford said he thought it was “a brain-dead solution” and that such a plan “will die before it is even born.”
“This a waste of time. It is not the answer to the problem,” he added.
These reported plans accompanied reports that the government will from March 2020 withdraw the military component of its anti-illegal mining taskforce, Operation Vanguard, from the field.
To continue effective monitoring of the sector, Citi News sources said the government was going to rely on mining guards and 144 drone pilots who are under the Nation Builders Corps.
But Mr. Casely-Hayford remarked that such plans have not been thought through.
“I think that we have not sat down to critically decide how we want to resolve this problem [of illegal mining],” he said.
He reiterated that whatever plan the government came up with must focus “on guaranteeing the cleanliness of the water bodies.”
“As to how somebody the ground and gets it, give them the regulations. 
If you dig and don’t find any gold or dig up as much gold as you want, leave the place in the condition you found it.”
Findings by some lecturers in the Political Science Department of the University of Ghana cited the fight against illegal mining as the second most disliked government policy.
As part of this policy, over 200 drones were procured by the government to assist its fight against illegal smal scale mining across the country.
The drones are used to take live images in districts where the practice is rampant.
Recent trainees underwent training in how to operate the drones at the George Grant University of Mines and Technology at Tarkwa in the Western Region.
The withdrawals of the soldiers was also a reminder for some that observers had described such an approach as unsustainable.
The failings of the military over the years started with the late 1980s where the first recorded nationwide operation against illegal mining was undertaken after the passage of the Small Scale Mining Law, PNDCL 218, 1989.
Another military operation took place in November 2006 named “Operation Flush Out” and was noted for allegations of human rights abuses.
In 2013 the government sanctioned a security operation under the banner of an “Inter-Ministerial Taskforce” which made use of military personnel.
The Alliance for Social Equity and Public Accountability (ASEPA) is shocked that the Office of the Special Prosecutor declined to probe acts of corruption hampering the fight against illegal mining in the country.
ASEPA had petitioned the office to probe the mining sector and ensure the enforcement of small scale mining laws with a focus on the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining and the anti-illegal mining task force, Operation Vanguard following the disappearance of hundreds of excavators seized from illegal miners.
But the Office in a response to the petition indicated that the matter presented does not raise questionable issues in terms of corruption to warrant its attention.
Reacting to the latest development on Eyewitness News, Executive Director of ASEPA, Mensah Thompson disclosed that his outfit will resort to the law courts to get the Special Prosecutor to conduct the necessary inquiry into the matter.
“I am very much disappointed at the response of the office of the Special Prosecutor. 
The response smacks of some inconsistencies and dishonesty in the way the Special Prosecutor responded. 
Our next line of action is to refer the matter to our lawyers. 
We have a meeting coming up to consider what will be the issues in terms of the law. 
We want to assure the good people of Ghana that this matter has not ended yet because we are determined to get to the bottom of the matter. 
We will look at local remedies available to us including International Union on the Conservation of Nature and other international bodies that deal with the protection of the environment. 
These are serious matters that we do not have to joke with,” said Mr. Thompson.
The letter signed by the Special Prosecutor, Martin Amidu explained that the Police Criminal Investigations Department (CID) had already launched a full-scale investigation into the matter.
The Special Prosecutor in the letter said the CID is in a better position to handle the issue.
“A review of your letter of complaint, however, has led this Office to the conclusion that the facts and conjects upon which underpin your complaint do not raise any issues of corruption and corruption-related offences as narrowly defined under section 79 of office of the Special Prosecutor Act, 2017 (Act 959) to warrant any investigations by this Office,” Martin Amidu added in the letter.
ASEPA had said recent allegations of corruption in the fight against illegal mining “show that the whole fight against illegal mining was a sham and a plot to get licensed small scale miners out of business so that some elements in the government can take over small scale mining in the country.”
The group further held that the allegations “border on offences such as stealing, bribery, corruption, abuse of public office for private gain and other serious offences” which fall under the purview of the Special Prosecutor.
So far, six persons have been arrested in connection with the missing excavators and since granted bail.
The six, include the suspended First Vice Chairman of the New Patriotic Party in the Central Region, Ekow Ewusi, who was also heard in an audio recording with the Environment, Science and Technology Minister, Professor Kwabena Frimpong-Boateng discussing the prospect of mining on some concessions.
The Minister of Environment, Science, Technology and Innovation, Professor Kwabena Frimpong-Boateng has denied allegations that his son, Jojo Frimpong-Boateng is involved in mining in Ghana’s forest reserves.
He indicated that such allegations are untrue.
Prof. Frimpong-Boateng issued the disclaimer in an interview with journalists on Thursday after the President’s State of the Nation Address.
Prof. Frimpong-Boateng told journalists that “he [his son] is not involved in anything and the world will get to know soon.”
There were some reports that a company linked to the son of Prof. Frimpong-Boateng, Jojo Frimpong Boateng, was involved in illegal mining.
The reports were trumpeted by some members of the opposition National Democratic Congress (NDC) as well as the Assin Central legislator, Kennedy Agyapong.
Kennedy Agyapong had alleged that some mining excavators seized by the government from alleged illegal miners had been given to Jojo Frimpong-Boateng through Ekow Ewusi who is currently being held by police over the disappearance of seized excavators.
Speaking on his Net2 television, Kennedy Agyapong said, “How can you seize people’s excavators for illegal mining and turn around to give it your son for his mining activities?”
The Minister in the interview also denied any involvement in alleged corruption in the fight against illegal mining.
“Everything that I have done in this world is for Ghanaians. 
I have not done anything for myself. Look at me; I have not taken bribes before. 
I have not extorted money from anybody before. I have not done anything wrong before,” he said.
There have been calls for him to resign or be axed during the aftermath of revelations about the disappearance of hundreds of excavators seized from illegal miners.
The Ranking Member on the Mines and Energy Committee of Parliament, Adam Mutawakilu, even called for his arrest.
However, the Minister remained resolute when queried on the matter insisting that the state will get to the bottom of the controversy.
All seized mining excavators that have gone missing will soon be found.
This is according to Professor Kwabena Frimpong-Boateng, the Minister for Environment, Science, Technology and Innovation.
According to him, the country’s security agencies are following up on the issue closely and will soon bring it to its logical conclusion.
The sector minister who has come under serious attack from a section of the public over his inability to account for all the equipment seized from illegal miners said he is confident that every stolen equipment will be found.
He told journalists on Thursday that “every excavator that has been stolen will be found…
I don’t want to overstep what the security people are doing so let us be patient. You will get the facts pretty soon.”
It was revealed that the excavators seized by Operation Vanguard from illegal miners and some small scale mining companies which flouted the ban on small scale mining had gone missing.
There were allegations that some top members of the governing New Patriotic Party (NPP) were involved in illegal mining and they had appropriated some of the excavators to themselves despite the public campaign against the practice.
The opposition National Democratic Congress (NDC) had said that the government’s ban on small scale mining was only a “smokescreen” to kick out other miners and allow persons aligned to the NPP space to mine clandestinely whilst the ban was still in force.
Jojo Frimpong-Boateng, son of the Minister is amongst those accused of being involved in illegal mining and using a missing excavator for the act in some of the country’s forest reserves.
But the Minister said the allegation against his son is false.
“He [Jojo Frimpong-Boateng] is not involved in anything and the world will get to know soon,” the Minister said.
Meanwhile, the suspended First Vice-Chairman of the NPP in the Central Region, Horace Ekow Ewusi who has become the centre of the controversial issue of the missing equipment has been captured in a viral video allegedly claiming that he together with the NPP General Secretary, Boadu were tasked by the sector minister to use the seized excavators to mine in various concessions.
The money raised from these activities, Mr. Ewusi alleged would help fund the political activities of the NPP.
John Boadu subsequently denied the allegation.
Prof. Kwabena Frimpong-Boateng had petitioned the Criminal Investigations Department of the Ghana Police Service to investigate Horace Ekow Ewusi over his alleged involvement in the missing earth-moving equipment.
So far, six persons arrested over the disappearance of the missing equipment have been granted bail.
President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has renewed his commitment to tackling the issue of illegal small scale mining popularly referred to as ‘galamsey’ in the country.
Delivering the State of the Nation Address in Parliament on Thursday, the President indicated that government still stands by its position to use all available means to address the galamsey menace which continues to destroy large portions of the country’s vegetation cover and water resources.
This comes at a time when many have taken on the government for what they consider as government’s failure to deal with the menace as promised in the run-up to the 2016 general elections.
While commending the efforts of the media coalition against galamsey and the Inter-ministerial Committee against Illegal Mining, Nana Addo mentioned that he will ensure that no one in government neglects his or her responsibility in the fight to protect Ghana’s environment.
“When we came into office in January 2017, galamsey activities were rampant in many parts of the country. Our lands, forests and river bodies were being systematically degraded and destroyed without any care and this had been the case for several years. 
The previous NDC government had given up the fight against galamsey but we determined that this was an intolerable situation and we owed it to generations unborn to tackle the problem and save our environment. 
I was therefore not under any illusion about the size and scope of the problem that we are taking on.”
“I was cheered by the support of the large population that recognized the dangers posed by the degradation of our lands and water bodies and the needless deaths of many young people who were buried alive in makeshift mining pits. Mr. Speaker, the threat posed to the future of our country by galamsey is grave. 
We cannot shirk our responsibility in the fight against galamsey. Government will not weaken its stance and welcomes the continued support of the media coalition. 
The Inter-ministerial Committee against Illegal  Mining has been working very hard and has some successes.”
The governing New Patriotic Party (NPP) says the fight against illegal mining popularly known as “galamsey” should be depoliticized.
The menace according to the party, affects all and thus a collective effort is needed to tackle it.
This appeal comes on the back of accusation by the opposition National Democratic Congress (NDC) that the government has failed to deal with illegal mining; a situation that is adversely affecting the country.
Director of Communications for the NPP, Yaw Buaben Asamoa said all hands must be on deck to end galamsey.
“We are aware that, the allegations of the missing excavators have brought the issue of galamsey to the fore. 
Happily, the matter has been referred to the police. 
We expect institutions of enforcement to be bold about it. 
Ideally, we would have wished the NDC leadership will deal with us rather than engage in petty politics that divide us. 
We believe that this should have been bi-partisan so that we deal with it in the context of challenges that face all of us and in a better way. 
Typical of the NDC, they have reduced this whole thing into three things – blame the president, scream loudly that the solution is not working and seek for the vote of the people without any alternative.”
In the past week, the NDC has described the government’s fight against galamsey as a failure because of several actions by government appointees and the issue of missing seized equipment.
But the NPP, on the other hand, has absolved itself from any wrongdoing insisting the fight against the menace is in full force.
Already, various bodies have called on the government to provide details on the progress or otherwise made on the fight against galamsey, with the NDC, demanding for a public exhibition of the seized excavators.
There has been so much talk about the fight against illegal mining in the last few months. 
This is partly because of how concerted the effort to rid the country of the menace was. 
Then, in recent weeks, how apparent it seems now that the battle against illegal mining has been lost.
In light of the above, we need to do some introspection of how the crusade against illegal small scale mining began, take a look at some of the gains made and how things started falling apart three years down the line. 
This is necessary because it will put things in perspective. 
It is also very necessary because the first gentleman’s job is on the line.
In 2016, Citi FM spearheaded the crusade against illegal small scale mining.
At the time, major water bodies in the Western, Ashanti and Eastern regions that supplied water to over ten million residents in these areas were heavily polluted.
The Ankobra, Offin and Birim rivers were the focal points. 
The Ghana Water Company warned of dire consequences at the time. 
The Company that treats water and distributes to our homes said if the situation was not addressed by stakeholders, the near future would be calamitous for the country. 
It warned at the time that Ghana may be resorting to the importation of water in the next two decades if the problem was not addressed. Because of the turbidity of the water bodies mentioned, its production plants had to work extra to purify water for domestic consumption and most of the river bodies were drying up or being polluted beyond redemption.
This generated considerable discussion in the country, compelling government to institute some measures.
Government eventually placed a ban on all forms of small scale mining in May 2017.
It set up the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining (IMCIM). IMCIM is made up of ten ministries including the Lands and Natural Resources, Defence, Interior, Local Government and Rural Development, Regional Re-organization, Chieftaincy and Religious Affairs, Monitoring and Evaluation, Information, Sanitation & Water Resources, and Environment, Science, Technology and Innovation (MESTI) as chair for the committee.
A military and police team christened Operation Vanguard was subsequently commissioned by the IMCIM with four operating bases in the Ashanti, Eastern, Western and Central regions. 
Their mandate was to flush out all illegal miners and enforce the ban on all forms of small scale illegal mining.
Their mandate was to streamline the activities of Operation Vanguard and the small scale mining licensing regimes. 
A year after its inauguration in 2018, it vetted and issued licenses to over 600 miners to go back to work.
In 2017, the Chief Justice also designated seven (7) High Courts and Seven (7) Circuit Courts located in Accra, Sekondi, Kumasi, Cape Coast, Koforidua, Sunyani and Bolgatanga to deal with all mining offences committed under the Minerals and Mining Act, (Act 703). Indeed, Parliament also amended the Minerals and Mining Act, to prescribe harsher punishments for offenders.
Mandated State institutions like the Forestry Commission and the Minerals Commission were strengthened to enforce the laws on small scale mining.
The IMCIM also acquired technologies like Galamstop, an App that integrated activities of all regulatory bodies in the fight against illegal mining.
The ban on all forms of small scale mining was partially lifted in December 2018 a year after its enforcement. 
It saw over 600 miners vetted and cleared to go back to mine in an environmentally friendly manner. 
The vetting had begun a month earlier, thus November 2018.
Let me take you through some of the rudiments these miners went through before they were given the permits to mine again. 
All registered small-scale miners whose licenses were operational as at April 1, 2017, were to submit all relevant documentation to the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining (IMCIM) Secretariat, before Friday, September 7, 2018.
The documents they are expected to present include Mining License, Environmental Permit, Operating Permit, Certificate of Registration, Tax Identification Number, two copies of passport size photos, Birth Certificate, Passport or Voter’s ID and current contact details.
Miners who sailed through the vetting were cleared eventually return to their sites.
Another group GalamSTOP Taskforce was commissioned by IMCIM on 29th September, 2019 to augment activities of Operation Vanguard. 
This parallel force has been questioned as its role has not been properly clarified.
The IMCIM Secretariat also procured drones to monitor activities of illegal miners, especially in the forest reserves. 
My checks with the IMCIM indicate that a total of 144 drone pilots from the Nation’s Builders Corps, were trained. 10 of the trainees were assigned to IMCIM, 18 for Operation Vanguard and 15 for the Minerals Commission.
It also acquired speed boats to aid Operation Vanguard to flush out illegal miners operating along water bodies. 
As of 2019, Operation Vanguard had arrested about 2,000 illegal Miners with Chinese and Ghanaians being the worst culprits.
At the peak of the campaign, there were reported cases of water bodies returning to their natural states. 
The government also introduced the community mining project in 2019, to streamline mining for interested indigenes in mining areas.
On the back of these gains, the Chairman of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining, scored their achievement at 70 percent.
Gains have been made but there are some major setbacks militating against the Stop Galamsey fight.
The secretary of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining, Charles Bissue, for instance, was implicated in a documentary allegedly taking a bribe to aid the issuance of mining license
He has since stepped down from his role as Secretary to the Committee. 
He was cleared of the allegations by the Criminal Investigations Department. 
But the Special Prosecutor arm of the investigations is still ongoing albeit slow.
There have been allegations of bribery and extortion against members of Operation Vanguard. 
This is seriously affecting their operations.
Forestry Commission officials have also stated on record that some powerful politicians are behind the illegal small scale mining enterprise, making it practically difficult for them to enforce the law.
The slow pace of prosecution of arrested illegal miners is also worsening matters.
The latest in the twist of events, is the case of the missing excavators. 
The Chairman of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining (IMCIM), Prof. Frimpong Boateng alleged that some seized excavators have gone missing.
During the peak of the crusade between 2017 and 2019, about five hundred excavators were seized from illegal miners. 
They were to be kept in the custody of the police by law.
In Ghana’s mining laws all seized or confiscated item should be supervised by state security agencies like the police, military or immigration.
Reports of the disappearance of the excavators and the subsequent arrest of an official of IMCIM, who is also the suspended Central regional NPP vice-chairman, Horace Ekow Ewusi and six others beg for answers.
Another mind-boggling announcement by the small scale miners was that the ounces of gold seized by IMCIM at the period are also missing.
These are serious allegations President Akufo-Addo must investigate if he really meant putting his job on the line. Mind you the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining (IMCIM) is directly under the Presidency.
As a mining reporter who has followed and reported on mining issues, I now understand why many at the time said the formation of the IMCIM was counter-productive. 
From all indications, it has been. 
Its Secretary, Charles Bissue has been implicated for allegedly taking bribes. 
He is still being investigated by the Office of the Special Prosecutor.
Its Chairman, Professor Frimpong Boateng has also been caught on tape in a conversation that seems to suggest he had and his party sought to privately profit from the confiscation of the excavators to fund their political party’s activities. 
That is scandalous, to say the least.
The cost of an excavator ranges between 270,000 USD and 320,000 USD. 
It costs between GHS2,200 and GHS2,700 to rent an excavator for a day (that’s 8 hours). 
How could they have done this?
How do we salvage the already damaged reputation of IMCIM? 
It does not need any salvaging; it must be completely dissolved. 
Its Chairman should have been fired or made to resign by now. 
The Minerals Commission can do a better job. 
There are laws that regulate the small scale mining space. 
The Minerals Commission is now decentralised. 
It has regional and district offices. 
The recent addition is the Regional office in Tamale. 
It has added four new mining district offices in addition to the existing nine and opened eight new satellite offices. 
It has also recently recruited 71 people and 220 Mining wardens to assist the Commission. 
While this may not be enough, there is clearly some capacity at the Minerals Commission and with their institutional understanding of the mining space, they are better placed to take over from the IMCIM.
After the dissolution of IMCIM, innovations like Galamstop, the drones and the numerous vehicles should be given to the Minerals Commission to bolster their resources and strengthen their hand to enable them do a superior job.
The Member of Parliament (MP) for Tamale North, Alhassan Suhuyini has urged the President to account for all items seized in the fight against illegal mining.
Already, various bodies have called on the government to provide details on the progress or otherwise made on the fight against galamsey, with the National Democratic Congress (NDC), demanding for a public exhibition of the seized excavators.
Alhassan Suhuyini, on the Floor of Parliament on Tuesday, said: “His Excellency the President who boldly put his Presidency on the line to demonstrate how much this course meant to him, if for nothing at all, Mr. Speaker, has his Presidency to save and it will be important that he starts by accounting for and to the people of Ghana all equipment, vehicles, weapons, ammunition and gold which were seized and kept by officers he commissioned to help end illegal mining and if necessary, penalize all who have proven to be negligent or complicit in what may have gone wrong.”
He also urged the House to probe the amount of money released for the fight against illegal mining and whether it was used for the right purpose.
“Mr. Speaker, in the face of what is clearly less than a successful campaign, I suggest humbly that your Parliament also shows more interest in how funds approved for this exercise to the various institutions have truly be expended and the results attained. 
Because these are funds belonging to the people whose interest we in all humility represent,” he added.
The NDC has asked the government to account for all excavators and ammunition seized during the Stop Galamsey Campaign.
According to the Communications Director of the party, Sammy Gyamfi, the government had seized 900 excavators during the campaign.
He cited figures in the 2020 budget presented in Parliament to support his claim.
Addressing a press conference on the banks of River Pra at Twifo Praso in the Central Region on Sunday, Mr. Gyamfi challenged the government to make a public presentation on the state of the items.
A former Minister for Environment, Science and Technology under the erstwhile Mahama administration, Akwasi Oppong Fosu, has called for an intensive investigation into the missing excavators case.
Mr. Fosu in an interview said an intensive investigation into the matter will bring some finality to the issue.
The Ghana Pentecostal and Charismatic Council has also thrown its weight behind calls for Akufo-Addo to take a keen interest in the alleged missing excavators and gold saga.
The latest call comes on the back of a similar one made by the Concerned Small Scale Miners.
In an interview with Citi News, General Secretary of the Council, Rev. Emmanuel T. Barrigah said the Council expects that people found culpable in the ongoing investigations will be dealt with.
Meanwhile, the Alliance for Social Equity and Public Accountability (ASEPA) has petitioned the Office of the Special Prosecutor to investigate alleged corruption in the enforcement of small scale mining laws.
ASEPA wants the Inter-Ministerial Committee against Illegal Mining and the anti-illegal mining task force, Operation Vanguard, to be the focus of the probe by the Special Prosecutor.
In the petition, it highlighted the need for “full investigations into the misappropriation of seized items such as excavators, mining equipment, gold and weapons by the IMCIM through the fight against illegal mining.”
The missing excavators brouhaha began when Professor Kwabena Frimpong-Boateng, the Minister for Environment, Science, Technology and Innovation and also Chairperson for the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining (IMCIM), disclosed recently that some of the excavators which were seized from illegal miners between 2017 and 2018 had vanished.
The suspended NPP Central Regional Vice Chairman, Ekow Ewusi who was contracted by the government to cart excavators and other vehicles and pieces of equipment seized by Operation Vanguard to designated areas for safekeeping was then seen as a suspect to the case.
The Ghana Water Company Limited in the Ashanti Region has warned that its treatment plant at Odaso could soon be shut down if urgent measures are not taken to prevent illegal miners from polluting the Odaso River.
According to the Ashanti Regional water Quality Assurance Manager, Alhaji Adam Yakubu, the state of the Odaso treatment plant keeps worsening by the day as a result of galamsey activities in the area.
He further added that the Owabi treatment plant is also being threatened as a result of the activities of private encroachers.
He believes designating the area as a security zone will help resolve the matter.
“The catchment area is being encroached by private developers and as a result of the activities of these private developers,  the Owabi dam has silted to a level that the depth which used to be 22.5ft has now reduced to 6ft and if we don’t take time, the Owabi dam will be completely silted and that could have serious ramifications for the people of Kumasi,” Alhaji Yakubu said.
The Ghana Water Company Limited, a few months ago began rationing water supply to Sekondi-Takoradi Metropolis and the Effia-Kwesimintsim Municipality.
This was due to the onset of the dry season which has resulted in the inadequate water supply to the treatment plant at Inchaban.
The ongoing water rationing in the Western Region according to GWCL officials is likely to be prolonged.
According to them, this has drastically reduced their production volumes from a peak of 4.5 million gallons per day to 2.3 million gallons.
The Production Manager at the Western Regional office of GWCL, Vincent Opoku Ware Darko, in an interview with Citi News on the sidelines of a desilting exercise at the Daboase treatment plant a few days ago said the situation might worsen if measures are not adopted to curb the activities of illegal miners.
“The weather itself has an effect on the volume of water we can draw. 
We are in the dry season and in this season, we have a lot of evaporation because the weather is very dry so most of the water is taken out. 
And then, we have this galamsey issue where we have a lot of silt at the intake site and with this galamsey activity ongoing, it brings a lot of silt that they deposit at our intake. 
So we need to take these silts out so we can produce a lot of water,” he said.
Continuous illegal mining activities in the Wassa East District and beyond, which have resulted in the pollution the Pra River, is having a devastating effect on nearby communities.
The Shama District might not have galamsey activities ongoing along the Pra River, but the hidden operations of illegal gold miners around Daboase in the Wassa East District and beyond have resulted in the brownish colour of the Pra River, posing a danger to communities who depend on the river for water.
In the Shama District alone, there are over six communities along the River Pra which have been affected greatly by the pollution from galamsey, including the Bosomdo community.
These communities do not have any choice but to use the heavily polluted water from the Pra.
Citi News’ Akwasi Agyei Annim, who visited some of the communities, reported that these challenged communities are without health centres or even CHPS compounds.
One of the residents noted: “Because of the galamsey, we can’t do anything about [the Pra River] It is dirty and so bad. 
Sometimes you have to put alum inside before you can cook with it. 
It is the only source of water here. 
We use it to cook or wash dishes. 
We can’t bath with it or wash our clothes because it is salty. 
We are hoping the government will give us boreholes,” one woman pleaded.
The caretaker chief of Shama Bosomdo also added that: “Some people recently drank the water and had diarrhoea because of its poor quality. 
They cannot live without drinking water so they have no choice. 
We buy sachet water from Beposo, which at times we don’t get a steady supply of. 
So we plead with the government to come to the mercy of the Bosomdo and Krobo communities.”
Some fishermen complained about the negative impact the state of the river is having on their businesses.
“We don’t get enough catch when we go fishing because of the galamsey which has destroyed the water. 
Our nets only catch mud when we throw them in so our fishing business has been destroyed and we don’t know what to do now.”
The effects of the pollution of the Pra River, which has affected water supply, go beyond businesses to even education.
The Bosomdo D/A Primary School’s kindergarten is facing a severe shortage of teachers due to the water supply problem, while Primaries one to six, which under normal circumstances, must have a minimum of six teachers, have only four teachers including the headmaster as most teachers are unwilling to stay in the community.
Despite all these potential health risks associated with the use of polluted water from the Pra, the community, just like its neighbours, has no health centre to deal with disease outbreaks.
The Shama District Director of Health, Alfred Osei-Assibey, reacting to the concerns of communities along the river, revealed that skin infections and water-borne diseases, such as diarrhoea, are on the rise in the communities.
“In the last three years, skin diseases have increased dramatically. 
From the 5,000 cases we recorded in 2017, now we are recording over 10,000 cases of skin infections. 
The diarrhoea cases have also risen from 6th in 2017 and now its number 3,” he said.
The Shama District Assembly, which is responsible for the provision of quality water for its residents, says it is aware of water the problems.
The National Farmers and Fishermen Association has warned of the devastating effect on Ghana’s cocoa industry if measures are not put in place to end illegal mining.
The Association insisted that the practice of turning cocoa farms into mining concessions is unacceptable and must be stopped immediately.
President of the Association, Davis Narh Korboe speaking at a meeting with President Nana Akufo-Addo at the Jubilee House said the practice is unfavourable to the growth of the cocoa industry.
“For instance, cocoa farms are being cut down every now and then and what we are saying is that in as much as people want to make money from mining, then concession, we should look at prime cocoa and exclude them from these mining activities so that our farmers can really produce,” he said.
Some Ghanaians have already given up on the fight against galamsey saying that the fight has been lost.
The leader of the Special Team set up by the Inter-Ministerial Committee on illegal mining to monitor, investigate, evacuate and arrest persons involved in illegal mining, Nana Yaw Boadu, had earlier stated that the team will expeditiously investigate and make sure that everyone involved in illegal mining is brought to book as it probes the issue of the missing excavators.
According to him, the issue will be treated as very important and no cover-up will be entertained.
“Now what we plan on doing is that we are not going to entertain any cover-up again. 
We are going with a camera to the site. 
So, when we enter the site, the camera will monitor everything. 
We want Ghanaians to know whatever is happening at the mining site. 
So, when you are doing the right thing, Ghanaians will know. 
When you are not too, they will know,” he said.
The suspended New Patriotic Party (NPP) Central Regional Vice Chairman, Horace Ekow Ewusi was earlier arrested by the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) for his alleged involvement in the disappearance of some excavators seized from illegal miners in the country.
It will be recalled that at the peak of the fight against illegal mining between 2017 and 2018, about 500 earth-moving machines were seized by the Lands and Natural Resources Ministry.
The then sector Minister, John Peter Amewu who sanctioned the seizure directed them to be parked at the premises of the various Metropolitan, Municipal and District Assemblies (MMDAs).
Professor Kwabena Frimpong-Boateng, the Minister for Environment, Science, Technology & Innovation and also Chairperson for the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining (IMCIM), disclosed recently that most of the excavators that were seized from illegal miners had vanished.
The Concerned Small Scale Miners Association subsequently told the Minister that they knew where the missing excavators were.
Ekow Ewusi was contracted by the government to cart excavators and other vehicles and pieces of equipment seized by Operation Vanguard to designated areas for safekeeping.
The Convener of the Media Coalition Against Illegal Mining, Ken Ashigbey, has described the country’s justice delivery system as a weak link in relation to the fight against illegal mining.
His comments come in the wake of the arrest of some individuals over some missing excavators and other seized equipment from illegal miners in the country.
Speaking on the Point of View on Wednesday, he called on the government to bring all cases related to the missing excavators to the capital, Accra to be prosecuted so the utmost focus can be given to the case.
“It [the judiciary] has been one of the weakest links. 
Before this excavator issue came, it was the weakest link because the last time I heard the Operation Vanguard commander talking, he was talking about 5% convictions. All of us have been complaining about it. 
I remember the Media Coalition petitioned in the situation in which Chinese were arrested and then prosecuted in a circuit court in Tarkwa. And these are foreigners. 
So even before the law was amended, the sanction for them was not GH¢2,400 fines. 
It was more than that if you were just going to do fines.”
“So definitely the justice delivery system is a problem. 
I remember speaking to one of the Supreme Court judges and his suggestion was the fact that to really deal with this issue, let’s bring every case, these galamsey cases to Accra, have the focus on it and prosecute them here. Because once you get them into these places all kinds of things happen. 
You would not have the situation where goats and things will change hands,” he said.
Professor Kwabena Frimpong-Boateng, the Minister for Environment, Science, Technology and Innovation and also Chairperson for the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining (IMCIM), disclosed recently that some of the excavators which were seized from illegal miners between 2017 and 2018 had vanished.
Some members of the Concerned Small Scale Miners Association subsequently revealed that they knew the whereabouts of the missing excavators, with claims that they were being used for galamsey in parts of the country.
Ekow Ewusi who was contracted by the government to cart excavators and other vehicles and pieces of equipment seized by Operation Vanguard to designated areas for safekeeping was then seen as a suspect to the case.
A letter sighted by Citi News revealed that Prof. Frimpong-Boateng wrote a letter to the Police CID to investigate him over his alleged involvement in the missing earth-moving equipment.
Five other individuals who are believed to be accomplices of Mr. Ewusi were also arrested with him.
They are Frederick Ewusi, Joel Asamoah, Adam Haruna, Frank Gyan and John Arhin.
They have however been granted bail and expected to report to the Criminal Investigations Department later on Wednesday 5th February 2020.
Mr Ashigbey had earlier blasted the government for failing to devise stringent measures to ensure the safety of excavators that were seized by operatives of Operation Vanguard.
Speaking to Citi News‘ Umaru Sanda Amadu, Mr. Ashigbey wondered whether these seized excavators which were reportedly carted to designated areas for safekeeping were monitored by police officers.
Mr. Ashigbey indicated that these excavators would not have gone missing if the government had put in place the necessary measures to ensure their safety.
Meanwhile, he has also asked President  Akufo-Addo to dismiss Metropolitan, Municipal and District Chief Executives (MMDCEs) whose areas, small scale illegal mining activities continue to take place unabated.
According to him, this should be part of measures to deal with the upsurge of illegal mining in the country.
He indicated that beyond empowering state institutions, officials who are at the helm of affairs at the various districts must be held responsible for the menace.
A former Minerals Commission Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Dr. Tony Aubynn, says the fight against illegal mining in the last few years has clearly been lost.
“Have water bodies become clean? No. Have people stopped mining without the requisite licenses? No. It has even gone underground,” he remarked on Eyewitness News.
According to Dr. Aubynn, the metrics of success are clear when judging the compliance with the law and the state of the water bodies.
“You define all these things and the answer is obvious. We haven’t succeeded,” the former Minerals Commission’s boss stated.
Dr. Aubynn was on his way out of the Minerals Commission, in 2017, just as the fight against illegal mining was kicking into gear.
But at that time, he was confident that illegal small-scale mining, popularly known as galamsey, had stopped in the country following the intense media campaign and government action.
Under him, the government interdicted nine district mining officers of the Minerals Commission who were asked to proceed on indefinite leave, in May 2017.
The nine officers supervised mining activities in nine mining districts and were found to be negligent.
The Lands and Natural resources Minister at the time, John Peter Amewu, said they were negligent, as they allowed illegal mining to continue in their respective areas.
The Minerals Commission acts as the main promotional and regulatory body for the minerals sector in Ghana and is responsible for the regulation and management of the utilisation of the mineral resources of Ghana and the coordination and implementation of policies relating to mining.
Currently, the Ghana Water Company Limited (GWCL) has warned that it will be forced to halt the production and supply of water if illegal small scale mining is not stopped.
The Western Regional Chief Manager of GWCL, Francis Agyei-Boateng, said rationing of water around this time each year has become more acute because of illegal mining.
Most of Ghana’s freshwater bodies have been heavily polluted with thousands of acres of fertile farmlands also destroyed as a result of the illegal mining.
Ghana was recently scored as 41% and ranked 80th country with the highest Corruption Perception by Transparency International, a body which measures annually the level of corruption in about 180 countries worldwide. 
After reading portions of the report, I was stuck between smiling or crying, either way, it was not pleasant what I read. 
A move from the 40% mark of last year as a perception of corruption in Ghana continuous to grow. 
What this simply means is that the perception we have about corruption and its related activities in Ghana has not changed but getting worse. 
Now I guess you understand my dilemma.
I kept asking myself, are we doing better as a country or we are perhaps at our ‘saturation’ level when it comes to corruption as a country? 
Irrespective of how I pondered about these questions, I arrived at a simple answer, probably not the answer I wanted, but it was perhaps the closest truth I could tell my wandering mind- we are not winning the fight against corruption.
I have read about a profound statement by a revered statesman when it comes to corruption. 
Former President J.A Kufuor is reported to have said ‘‘Corruption is as old as Adam’’. 
A statement I tend to agree with except the connotation it carries. 
Perhaps not what he meant to communicate as he will later clarify, but the baggage it conveys leaves me with no option than to steer away from it completely.  
Corruption has stayed with us from generations and its impact on our lives have been dire.
Corruption at any level should not be tolerated but that seems not the case in the system we live in. 
Greasing of palms and handing down cash or kind has gained notoriety in our politics, our public and civil services, our judiciary, our education system and virtually every aspect of our lives. 
The consequences of widespread corruption have a horrible effect on our country’s development. Ghana’s developmental agenda has delayed partly because of corruption over the years. 
Imagine monies meant for development syphoned by greedy public and civil servants through contracts and as a result, a community lacking basic social amenity such as water. 
Consider corruption activities bleeding our country of taxes at our Ministries, Agencies and Departments meant for development?
It is therefore not surprising the premium that is placed on the fight against corruption by the various political parties in their campaigns over the years, except to say that, they have failed abysmally at dealing with the canker. 
Government after the other since 1992 has promised to deal ruthlessly with corruption but the result after the promises leave much to be desired.
The setting-up of the Office of Special Prosecutor (OSP) by the NPP led Government was considered as a game-changer in the nation’s fight against the menace, but three years into its existence, little has been seen. 
The man put in charge of that office was an honourable, effective and efficient man, but that perhaps was when he was a private citizen. 
Maybe we should have left him as a ‘citizen vigilante’, by now we will have recovered the ‘Woyome’ money and many others. 
This by no means seeks to ridicule the office, maybe we will be reaping the fruits soon, but three years of ‘no show’, leaves me worried.
Perhaps the political chess game we play with the fight against bribery, exploitation and sleaze in our political and public services has not helped. 
Corruption fight is a non-negotiable matter in the interest of our country.  
But this is not an act only politicians and people in high authority engage in, private citizens and individuals are equal culprits when it comes to corruption. 
Remember, ‘the giver and the taker’ are both guilty? 
We have perhaps become numb as a people to the corruption that we are willing to pay each time even without request. 
Our national consciousness about corruption fight seem narrow and therefore need to be deepened. 
Our understanding of what constitutes corruption is blurred hence our pride in the act.
Lest I deviate, the war against illegal mining is rearing its ugly head again, our water bodies are turning brown, water treatment plants are about shutting down.
The ongoing illegal mining activities, popularly known as ‘galamsey’ affirms my position that maybe we have become numb to corruption or we are willing to be complicit in it. 
The long-held notion that ‘when the last tree dies, the last man dies’ has perhaps become an over flogged cliché that doesn’t strike to the core anymore. 
The media coalition against ‘galamsey’ along with government, fought the canker to some extent but the battle is far from over. 
The fight against ‘galamsey’ is imperative that needs no apathetic approach. 
We are losing our forest cover and losing our water bodies as well.
A recent publication about water shortage hitting part of the central region, Cape Coast to be specific struck me to the core. 
The publication suggests that the activities of illegal mining are leaving the water treatment plant in the region with no option than to ration water which in the long run will lead to a total shut-down. 
According to a report by JoyNews Central regional correspondent, ‘‘the Sekyere-Hermang water treatment plant is chocked with turgid water’’. 
I ask then, are we losing the fight against ‘galamsey’ too? I hope not. 
Because, ‘when the last water dries, the last man dies too’. 
It is perhaps overstretched, but I likened the effect of galamsey on corruption. 
They are both cancerous tissues that need to be dealt with, but we seem to be losing both fights.
President Akufo-Addo led administration ‘tried’ fighting the menace but it seems ‘galamsey’ is rather fighting it. 
Bodies such as GalamStop, Inter-Ministerial body, and other operations were launched to fight against corruption but none so far appears to have helped completely. 
The approach helped to some extent but our water bodies are still at the mercies of the cruel individuals who are bent on making money at the expense of the national good.
Some of the bodies set up to fight ‘galamsey’ have allegedly degenerated into extortion bodies, taking kickbacks and bribes at the expense of our country. 
While citizens are complicit in these acts as their role in fronting for foreign nationals smacks in the face for good citizenship, these multi-million ventures are sponsored by people in authority and well to do in society- people who have no good intentions for Ghana.
Many other approaches adopted to fight the canker continue to leave me in the dark as they have not been fruitful to the level worthy of praise. 
The adoption of technology in the fight was announced in 2018 but we seem to have gone to bed after the declaration just like others. While we have good intention is solving our problems, we never follow through to the needed result.
Lands and Natural Resources Minister, Mr Asomah-Cheremeh stated in September 2019 that, the government has achieved 85% success rate in the fight against ‘‘galamsey’’. 
While no evidence was given to substantiate this claim, I have no reason to doubt except to say, our rivers are still brown, indicating there is ‘galamsey’ still on-going. 
The Mineral and Mining Law has been amended with 15years minimum and 25years Maximum sentences, as well as 10,000 and 15,000 penalty units to ensure stiffer punishment but the recalcitrant are still doing it, perhaps with a planned cabal.
At the Meet-The-Press by the Lands and Natural resource minister, mining contributed $1.3 billion in 2019 as revenue, creating over 26,425 jobs by the large scale mining firms. 
The potential at the mining industry remains a viable one which when harnessed properly and through the legal channel will add a substantial amount to our revenue basket. But at no point should ‘galamsey’ be regularized since the result on the nation will be a disaster.
The fight against the twin-canker ‘corruption and galamsey’, that continue to obliterate our nation, need a concerted effort from us all. 
The importance of water and forest reserve can never be underestimated and thus should be guarded with all our might. 
Galamsey and Corruption have an awful consequence on our country’s development and the earlier we deal with them with all seriousness, the best it will be for generations yet unborn.
Dealing with corruption should be high on the agenda, teaching and practising integrity with rewards should be promoted and be seen at the fore-front in our education and religious institutions. 
Appropriate punishment should be encouraged and applied impartially. 
While the wheel of justice perhaps grinds slowly, fast-tracking cases of illegal mining, prosecuting and securing convictions could serve as a deterrent to the many who may want to engage in the illegal act.
We shouldn’t continue to sit detached and watch our natural resource blessings turn into a curse. 
Water is life, let’s not sit on the fence about the effect of ‘galamsey.’
God bless our homeland and make her great and strong.
It appears the about 500 excavators seized during the intense crusade against illegal small scale mining between 2017 and 2018, are not missing as alleged by the Chairman of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining, Professor Frimpong Boateng.
Members of the Concerned Small Scale Miners Union of Ghana say they know the whereabouts of the earth moving machines.
President of the Union, Richard Kojo Peprah speaking to Citi News said some of their members traced their excavators to various illegal mining sites in parts of the country.
“We were able to find some of these machines in Tamale. Some of these machines had tracking devices. 
So we are able to trace them.
When they take the machine in the Ashanti region then, they send it to the Northern region. 
They are engaged in one activity or the other. 
Some are even engaged in galamsey”.
The chairman of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Illegal Mining, Professor Frimpong Boateng disclosed last week that most of the seized excavators are missing.
The minister is quoted as saying that “though the excavators were seized and taken to the district assemblies, the heavy-duty machines disappeared later from the premises of the assemblies”.
The Media Coalition against Illegal Mining and Occupy Ghana subsequently demanded from government explanations for the supposed disappearance of some excavators.
According to the two organisations, the authorities responsible for ensuring sanity within the mining sector have failed to enforce the law.
Convenor of the Media Coalition against Galamsey, Ken Ashigbey said persons behind the disappearance should be named to ensure they are sanctioned.
“If we don’t ensure that the laws that we have, are working, then the impunity will continue. 
How come some of the excavators cannot be found? 
It is also important that we know which public officers or individuals are responsible for this. 
That is something that we need answers for,” he said.
The Inter-Ministerial Committee on illegal mining was set up to oversee the implementation of the ban on all forms of small scale mining and also see to the vetting of small scale miners.
It was commissioned in March 2017 by President Akufo-Addo to reform artisanal and small-scale mining in the country. 
It’s chaired by the minister of Environment, Science, Technology, and Innovation (MESTI), Professor Frimpong Boateng.
The Forestry Commission says unseen powerful persons are behind the resurgence of illegal mining in some forest reserves in the country.
One of such affected forest is the Bekwai Forest Reserve in the Amansie Central District in the Ashanti Region, where illegal miners have destroyed about seven hectares of land.
The Bekwai District Manager of the Forestry Commission, Rexford Twum-Damoah, told journalists that the situation is getting out of hand as the illegal miners sometimes enjoy military protection.
He said the illegal miners often refer to the powerful people as their bosses hence carry out the destructive activity with impunity.
Many forests across the country have been under threat of the activities of illegal miners who destroy tree cover and pollute water bodies in their quest to mine gold.
Citi News‘ Jonas Nyabor in a report on how illegal mining is wiping out Ghana’s forests in 2019 found that several hectares of fertile forestlands across the country have been destroyed due to the activities of illegal miners, especially within the last decade.
The Desiri, Kutukrom, Kobro, Oda, Jimira, Atewa, and Tano-Offin forests in the Ahafo, Western, Ashanti, Eastern regions have all suffered from the illegality.
Many rivers, including the Birim River in the Eastern Region and other water bodies, that take their source from these forests have as a result been left heavily polluted, depriving residents in nearby communities of a source of freshwater and putting at risk the lives of over five million other people in major cities in the south whose potable water are sourced from the forests.
In the report, it was found that although the forestry commission makes some arrest and ensures prosecution of persons who mine illegally in forest reserves, some of those who cause the worst destructions are able to escape prosecution or sometimes arrest due to the influence of powerful people in society.
An Accra High Court says Nii Amanoo Dodoo, the Receiver of the now-defunct uniBank, can testify in the trial of Dr. Kwabena Duffuor, founder of the bank, and other officials.
Mr. Dodoo was to be called as the State’s first witness in the trial, but lawyers for Dr. Duffuor prayed the court not to allow Mr. Dodoo to testify.
Dr. Duffuor’s lawyers argued that the Receiver had breached sections of the Banks and Specialized Deposit Act, 2016 hence their objection.
According to the lawyers, the presence of the first Prosecution Witness, Nii Dodoo does not qualify him to testify because he was appointed Receiver of uniBank after being a partner of KPMG which audited the accounts of the bank.
Mrs Yvonne Attakora Obuobisa, the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), opposed the objection.
She admitted that Nii Dodoo was previously a partner of KPMG, indicating that KPMG did not hold any shares in uniBank neither did it hold any key position in uniBank.
The Director of Public Prosecution argued that KPMG had not violated any rule or statute and that the appointment of Nii Dodoo was from a private sector and was legitimate.
“The fact that he has worked with KPMG does not prevent Bank of Ghana from appointing him as receiver of uniBank,” he added.
Mrs Obuobisa said his appointment as the Receiver was lawful, urging the court to dismiss the objection since the witness met the requirement for qualifying to testify.
Justice Bright Mensah, Court of Appeal Judge, sitting as an additional High Court Judge, said, ” I uphold the argument of DPP that the appointment was not illegal or void.
The appointment of Nii Dodoo by BoG is valid.”
He said Section 59 of the Evidence Act explained who was not qualified to testify, which included someone who was incapable of coherent expression so as to be understood, directly or through interpretation by another person who could understand that person; or incapable of understanding the duty of a witness to tell the truth.
Justice Mensah said he held the view that, the witness was qualified to testify and had personal knowledge of what was at hand.
“The appointment of the Receiver was valid,” he added.
He, however, said the Counsel for A1, A2 and A4 had impressed upon the court that, the evidence, he would give would be tainted with illegality because he was incapable to testify on those reports.
The Judge said that the argument was simplistic and that it could not be said that the method would be tainted with invalidity.
“The challenge of his validity should be a civil matter and that the witness is a competent and comparable witness,” the Court of Appeal Judge said.
The court, therefore asked the Receiver to take the oath and proceed to testify.
Dr. Kwabena Duffuor and 8 others are facing a total of 71 charges for various roles they played in what led to the collapse of some financial institutions.
The Ghana Association of Bankers says it largely welcomes the Bank of Ghana’s directives to banks and Specialized Deposit-Taking institutions to stop a number of fees and charges slapped on customers for some services rendered.
The Association is however unhappy with the instruction for the financial institutions to stop deducting maintenance charges on savings accounts.
Speaking to Citi News, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Association, John Awuah, justified the charges on savings accounts, explaining that some savings accounts are technically operated like current accounts.
“The target is not even the banking industry. It has to do with other participants in the financial system. 
It is, for this reason, we support largely, not entirely, the cancellation of some charges. 
We need to treat the customers fairly.”‘
“Savings accounts are not meant for daily withdrawals. 
But, we see people link their MoMo wallets to it, use ATMs for withdrawing money from the account, etc. 
This makes the accounts lose their character. What the banks are saying is that, in cases where customers use accounts designated for investments as current accounts, they are to be levied accordingly. 
To that extent, we have a bit of a challenge,” he explained.
The Central Bank in a statement on Friday, June 18, 2021, directed banks and Specialized Deposit-Taking institutions to desist from implementing seven different fees and charges, and also stop engaging in some practices that do not auger well for the banking sector.
The fees and charges, and practices which are identified by the central bank as unfair include, Credit Insurance Premium Overcharges, Maintenance Fees on Savings Account, among others, Over the Counter (OTC) Withdrawal Charges as well as the requirement by some banks for borrowers to make them part owners in some assets they present for use as collateral for loans.
A Banking consultant, Dr. Akwasi Atuahene, has urged the Bank of Ghana to take action against financial institutions that fail to implement these new directives.
The Bank of Ghana (BoG) on Friday, June 18, 2021, directed Banks and Specialized Deposit-Taking institutions in the country to stop charging unfair fees and charges.
Among other things, the central bank also ordered the financial institutions to stop unlawful practices that do not auger well for the financial sector.
“These practices are deemed to be unfair, inappropriate, and detrimental to the financial inclusion agenda and the protection of customers’ interest,” a statement from the BoG said.
The unfair charges, according to the Bank of Ghana, include, credit insurance premium overcharges, maintenance fees on savings accounts, over the counter withdrawal charges, among others.
Below are the seven unfair charges and fees, and the clear directives the BoG gave on them going forward:
As part of credit underwriting policies, a number of banks and SDIs require borrowers to hold credit insurance against eventualities such as death, permanent disability, and termination of employment. 
While the Bank of Ghana acknowledges the importance of this practice as a loss mitigating norm in credit management, a number of banks and SDIs take advantage, to overprice the premiums charged to customers, resulting in the increased cost of borrowing. 
Banks and SDIs are directed to desist from premium overcharges and to adhere strictly to the following:
Banks and SDIs that opt to use their pre-determined insurance companies to underwrite borrowers’ loans, shall apply the same premium charged by the underwriting company to borrowers.
Banks and SDIs are not permitted to retain insurance premiums collected from customers with the intention of implementing an internal insurance policy.
This excludes commissions for Bancassurance arrangements.
The application of “Account Maintenance Fees” by banks and SDIs on savings accounts inhibits deposit mobilisation and discourages the use of banking systems by the public. 
Bank of Ghana has noted that the application of such fees has driven a number of savings accounts into debt and, in so doing, eroded the deposits of vulnerable depositors who would generally expect their savings accounts to earn interest.
This practice is detrimental to financial inclusion and negates the gains of the financial literacy programmes geared towards promoting personal savings.
Bank of Ghana notes that some banks and SDIs impose penal charges on customers who withdraw their own funds from banking halls of affected banks and SDIs. 
The reason commonly attributed to this practice is to encourage customers to use digital platforms provided by the banks/SDIs for such withdrawals, in order to decongest banking halls. 
These digital platforms are however not offered for free.
While the Bank of Ghana acknowledges the support of banks and SDIs in the digitization agenda, this action deters some customers, especially those who are averse to the use of digital platforms, from opening and operating accounts. 
The practice also negatively affects the financial inclusion drive of the Bank of Ghana.
Banks and SDIs are directed to desist from levying penalties on customers who withdraw their own funds below certain thresholds from the banking halls.
In addition, banks and SDIs shall not levy penalties against customers who request account balances within banking halls.
Bank of Ghana notes that some banks and SDIs require borrowers who secure credit facilities with movable assets, to transfer ownership of such assets into the joint names of the borrower and the bank or SDI involved. 
In addition, borrowers are made to bear the cost associated with the transfer prior to loan approval and after the settlement of the loan.
This practice of some banks and SDIs is contrary to section 7 of the Borrowers and Lenders Act, 2020 (Act 1052) which does not permit a security interest to operate as a transfer of title from a borrower to a lender. 
The practice further denies borrowers the opportunity to secure multiple loans with single collateral duly registered in the name of the respective borrowers.
Banks and SDIs are barred from engaging in the practice of changing ownership of collaterals presented by borrowers to secure credit facilities from the borrower to the bank or SDI.
The Bank of Ghana has observed a practice among some banks and SDIs, where penal interest rates levied against defaulting loan customers, are made to accrue interest. 
In effect, interest is computed on penal charges in addition to interest on the outstanding loan amount.
This practice results in high outstanding loan balances which customers are unable to pay, resulting in high non-performing loans.
The practice is detrimental to the credit market. 
Banks and SDIs are directed to desist from the application of interest on penal charges.
Additionally, penal charges shall only be applied on the amount of the delayed interest or principal payment and not on the total outstanding loan amount in accordance with section 55(3) of the Borrowers and Lenders Act, 2020 (Act 1052).
In accordance with section 55 (2) of the Borrowers and Lenders Act, 2020 (Act 1052), banks and SDIs shall impose on a borrower an interest rate that is calculated on an Annual Basis only in all credit agreements.
Consequently, banks and SDIs are directed to desist from the quotation of monthly interest rates on all credit facilities and associated fees.
In addition to the interest rate, banks and SDIs are directed to disclose the Annualized Percentage Rate (APR) related to every credit facility in accordance with the Disclosure and Product Transparency Rules for Credit Products and Services.
Bank of Ghana has observed with concern, the lack of compliance with the requirement of banks and SDIs to obtain full personal details (name, address, ID, and telephone numbers) of a person who makes a deposit into or withdrawal from an account on behalf of another person. Deposit slips of some banks and SDIs do not make provision for depositors’ signatures. 
This anomaly makes it possible for third parties to deposit into the customer’s account under the guise that the deposit was made by the customer, by simply writing “self” in the column for the depositor’s name.
Telecommunication company, MTN, has handed over a 300,000 Cedi blood bank facility to the management of the Obstetrics and Gynaecology Unit at the Cape Coast Teaching Hospital, with a call on Ghanaians to support the work of the National Blood Service by donating blood.
The handing-over ceremony coincided with the World Blood Donors day celebration.
The Chief Corporate Services Executive of MTN Ghana, Samuel Koranteng, said, “the provision of the facility is a unique opportunity to leave a lasting legacy for our blood donation exercises over the years. 
The construction of this facility, therefore, serves as a good symbolism of our contribution to the collection and storage of blood in Ghana”.
“We are even more excited because we are making a significant contribution to the health needs of the people of this country”, he emphasized.
Samuel Koranteng maintained that the significance of blood in healthcare delivery, especially in emergency cases and in cases of obstetric hemorrhage, cannot be overemphasized.
“… Because of the need, the MTN Foundation instituted an annual blood donation exercise which has over the years yielded 20,036 pints of blood”.
The Chief Executive Officer of the Cape Coast Teaching Hospital, Dr Eric Kofi Ngyedu, disclosed that the hospital recorded twenty-six maternal deaths in 2020.
“Though a reduction from the previous year’s figure of twenty-eight, the situation is still extremely unacceptable”.
Dr. Ngyedu thanked MTN for the kind gesture “to support the hospital to improve maternal health outcomes”.
Many Ghanaians were hopeful when the government introduced the One District One Factory (1D1F) initiative, which is aimed at building strong value-addition-oriented companies as well as reducing the unemployment rate in the country.
Although some private companies have received some forms of support under the initiative, many have not received the support needed as access to funds has been a challenge.
In a bid to address this, the Managing Director of the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB), Dr. John Kofi Mensah, says the bank is offering support to Ghanaians who are into agribusiness by financing out-grower schemes under the one district one factory initiative.
“One district one factory was brought by our president, and we are trying to move it to another level as an agricultural focused bank to finance out-grower schemes for the one district one factory initiative. 
That is, the factories and the industries that are being established, we want to fund the input base, and most of them are agro. 
Let’s take, for example, the Ekumfi Juice factory in the Central Region which was commissioned by the President, ADB is financing the input base, that is pineapple. 
We have already pumped thirty million cedis into an out-grower scheme for farmers in pineapple production. 
Another one I can talk of is the Tomato processing factory at Berekum in the Bono Region.”
“We are financing an out-grower scheme for tomato production. 
So any Ghanaian who wants to go into agro-based processing should be sure that when you come to talk to ADB, we will support you to build a raw material base by financing an out-grower scheme so, that, your factory will continue producing without any break. 
We are concentrating on Ghana production in terms of the raw materials and most of them are agro-based.”
Another industry in Ghana that has been struggling over the years is the poultry industry.
The Managing Director of ADB, Dr. John Kofi Mensah says in order for local poultry farmers to be globally competitive, his outfit has introduced a broiler value chain scheme where various players are given financial support with favourable interest rates.
“We have also introduced a broiler value chain scheme where we finance value chains from the hatchery to production, processing to marketing. 
We have identified interest rate as an issue, and we are promising our value chain customers that we are going to see to the further suppression of the interest rate”.
The Managing Director made these comments on the sidelines of a dinner with some selected customers of the bank in Kumasi.
The Board Chair of ADB, Alex Bernasko said, although COVID-19 hit various institutions hard, ADB was able to make a profit of 65 million Ghana Cedis in 2020, and even introduced flexible terms to suit its customers.
The Board Chair added that the bank is set to introduce a three-year strategic plan to make it much stronger.
“When the COVID-19 pandemic surfaced, we came up with a few strategies to lighten the burden of our customers. 
In fact, one of them was to introduce a moratorium on existing facilities. 
Apart from that, some of them were given restructured payment schedule to enable them enough time to pay. 
You will also appreciate that some of the charges have been reduced and all that for the benefit of the customers to make life less worrisome for them. But generally, ADB has got a three-year strategic plan which is intended to improve its structures and systems and way of doing work”.
The board members of ADB as part of their visit to the Ashanti Region paid a courtesy call on the Asantehene, Otumfuo Osei Tutu II.
The Asantehene commended the bank for its focus on agriculture and urged it to continue to offer support to various businesses.
The Minister for Works and Housing, Francis Asenso Boakye, has disclosed that the government is partnering with the World Bank to invest $200 million in measures to tackle flooding in Accra.
According to him, this forms part of the government’s vision to end the perennial flooding in the capital city.
Mr. Asenso Boakye made this known in a press statement issued on Thursday, June 3, 2021, in commemoration of the June 3 disaster in 2015, which claimed 152 lives and injured many others.
“In line with this, the government has collaborated with the World Bank to invest $200 million to, among others, implement the Greater Accra Resilient and Integrated Development (GARID) project.”
The Minister also added that the Akufo-Addo government will also “intensify efforts aimed at finding lasting solutions to the perennial flooding in Accra and other parts of the country.”
Meanwhile, Mr. Asenso Boakye also charged the citizenry to aid the government in this endeavour.
According to him, the government alone cannot end the menace if citizens do not also change their attitudes.
The project is meant to mitigate flood risks and address the solid waste management challenges in the Odaw Drainage Basin.
It also involves the reconstruction of some bridges to remove identified impediments to the flow of water in the basin when it rains, and the construction of detention ponds upstream of the Odaw Basin, to hold large volumes of water that would otherwise lead to flooding, especially around Kwame Nkrumah Circle.
“These illegal activities were mostly being done in the night or under the cover of darkness protected by armed guards, as used cartridges were chanced upon at the sites. The Operation Halt II patrol that accompanies the team was ordered to destroy logistics chanced upon in these areas,” the statement added.
Some societies teach that “real men” are domineering or that women need to be fiercely aggressive so as not to appear weak.
Her mother's body was only chanced upon on Thursday. Rescuers told Beijing Youth Daily that when they discovered her body, it was frozen in a position that seemed like she was lifting something up.
Some expatriates of other countries in Ghana also participated in the noble cause.
It's not why I'm here.
What [Naana Jane] has taken for granted [is that], some students may not get scholarships to certain universities around the world because they are going to look at them and say they have cheated and don’t deserve to get the scholarship”.
Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks.
Mr. Alex Bram believes that making good use of the online platfoem (the Hubtel app)will help make the prices of the item stable.
What if your partner is reluctant to speak up? Recognize that “a person’s thoughts are like water in a deep well, but someone with insight can draw them out.”
he added when all stakeholders contribute their quota to improve teaching and learning environment in schools, pupils would perform better.
Despite the full-time requirements, we hope that you will find time outside of the training to reflect on what you are being taught here”, he added.
On the critical roads programme, the Minister said part of the roads to be completed are; Navrongo to Naga stretch the Wa to Bulenga to Yaala road, Salaga to Ekumdipe to Kpandai road which is 60% complete, upgrading of Yagaba to Mankarigu road as well as the upgrading of Daboya to Mankarigu road among hosts of road projects
How do two people who have vowed to love each other get to the point where they refuse to talk for hours—or even days?
The police’s Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) said a female manager at Tala, a digital lender that issues small loans to Kenyans, met the Ghanaian called Victor Anane through an online dating site.
The military also assaulted security men on duty.
Ken Ofori-Atta and Charles Adu Boahen benefited from that money through the fees they get for their company.
He was addressing concerns raised by the Federation on some compelling issues affecting the growth of the private sector, including laws relating to taxes.
When discussing matters that will affect your marriage partner, (1) explain how you would like to handle the situation, but present your thoughts as suggestions, not final decisions or ultimatums; (2) ask your partner to express his or her opinion, and acknowledge your partner’s right to hold a different viewpoint; and (3) “let your reasonableness become known” by adopting your mate’s preferences whenever possible.
They also need to care more about other people’s needs.
In the meantime, we want them to suspend the strike,” he stated.
At the added meeting, the BA team promised to provide further information and data analysis to support it reason for the changes of its services from London-Heathrow-Airport to London-Gatwick-Airport and to enable the Government of Ghana to take a final position on the matter.
The stream is polluted by waste from houses and factories.
That’s what Efua 17, decided to do.
The police chanced upon a dead body in an abandoned car near the park.
He added that “it will enable us to reduce the population of mosquitoes.”
Have you begun studying English?
Both Madam Akanji and Mr.Dadzie, made this known during the maiden edition of the ‘Huawei Day with Media’ which was held in Accra.
I have a friend whose father is a famous actor.
They are amazingly flexible, becoming as pliable as wax or as stiff as a board within minutes or even seconds.
This tree is about as tall as that one.
Friends and relatives too may struggle to adapt to new family members.
Travel makes you more resilient
In the midst of COVID-19, under Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, these students courageously sat for the exam and obtained a score of 66.05%.
Initial reports from the circuit overseers indicate that 44 homes have been damaged.
he added, “if we don’t make reasoning prevail in this issue, we will not have a justification for our trip paid by our member countries to come here and engage with these exchanges, it will not help us.
The entire Law Village Project, according to the President, will cost about US$55 million, with Phase One of the project complementing the facilities of the Accra Main Campus located at Makola, at a cost of US$4 million). “Once completed, the Law Village will boast of an additional seating capacity of one thousand five hundred (1,500) seats, a number of lecture halls, a well-resourced library, residential facilities, offices, amongst others,” he added.
Keep in mind that smoking is not good for your health.
For example, a dispute that starts with “You’re always late!” may not be about the need for punctuality but about one partner feeling that he or she has been treated inconsiderately.
Our server will be offline on October 20th for scheduled maintenance.
Effective Saturday, June 5, road transport fares will be increased by 13%.
Is it possible to teach a child humility without damaging his or her self-worth?
Accounting firm, PwC, was earlier appointed to establish the veracity of the over ¢1.2 billion claims made by NDK Financial Services Limited against the government through the Ministry of Energy
Operation Halt taskforce on Sunday, May 16 2021, invaded the mining site of Kate Gyamfua at Akyem Pameng in Atew West District in the Eastern region and set ablaze eight excavators, a bulldozer and dozens of water pumping machines.
WHY IS HUMILITY IMPORTANT?
“One of the things I want to do is to engage civil society to present drafts on the proposed amendments that will better serve the business community.
After you express yourself, allow your partner to respond without interruption.
Laboratory Scientists at KATH began a one-week sit-down strike last week to protest the posting of two medical officers to the Laboratory Services Directorate of the hospital.
As for Charles Adu Boahen who is due for vetting, I want him to do the honourable thing and withdraw Black Star Brokerage before Wednesday.
Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country.
Some of those who was speaking to Citi News said the vaccines did not arrive until almost midday.
Indulging a child’s every wish can cause him to feel entitled.
Subsequent investigation has also established that these suspects are involved in many other robberies cases reported to the region” he added.
The Minority Leader is of the view that burning excavators is illegal and that the AG, Godfred Dame, must explain to the House, the rationale behind such an approach.
The government has thus introduced the double intake system to accommodate the overflow.
Every time you get together with your friends, you pair off with the same person of the opposite sex. Are you dating?
The Chief Executive Officer of NIMED Capital Limited, Abena BuachiwaaBrigidi, has encouraged women that they can have both a career and a stable family at the same time.
Ghana’s President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, has expressed prochanced upon commiserations to the Federal Republic of Nigeria following the unfortunate passing of its Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru and several others.
Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal pay for equal work.
Meanwhile, Mr. Sukparu has reported the incident to the Sissala West District Police Command for investigation.
Do not tune out or walk away, even if what you are hearing displeases you.
Learning to be humble will help your child both now and later in life​—for example, when seeking employment.
The Ghana Union of Traders Association (GUTA) at Kasoa in the Awutu Senya East District of the Central region has threatened to close down shops of foreign nationals engaged in retail businesses.
In the Eastern region, robbers mounted roadblock on Monday dawn and robbed passengers plying that route. A passenger was killed in the attack.
Inflammation protects against infection and removes any “debris” caused by the injury.
No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms
We are young.
He also pledged that the Minority in Parliament would support government’s quest, should it be transparent and fair in all its dealings.
The suspect masquerades as a pastor, approaches innocent women looking for love and affection online, with promises of making their lives better before fraudulently obtaining money from them.”
Do you remember what I taught you?
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, on Wednesday, 26th May, 2021, cut the sod for the first phase of construction works to begin on the Law Village of the Ghana Law School.
Pope Francis is seen after being discharged from Rome's Gemelli University Hospital.
President Akufo-Addo on behalf of the government of Ghana and Ghanaians sympathized with Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari and the rest of the population over Lt. Gen. Attahiru’s death and that of seven other officials.
It is instructive to note that the $30 million Yendi Water Project is funded by a facility from the Indian Exim Bank, and it is being executed by WAPCOS, an Indian civil engineering/consultancy firm.
The gathering was told that distance courses have been started for candidates in remote districts who hardly get opportunity to upgrade themselves and that the initiative is aimed at widening the university’s coverage to allow teachers and other workers in “distant communities” to obtain qualifications that are relevant to their career objectives.
Melody Owusu was rushed to Margret Marquart Catholic Hospital in Kpando for medical attention.
Many fathers and mothers thus began lavishing a constant flow of praise upon their children, even when those children did nothing particularly praiseworthy.
You most likely had no problem answering the first question.
This excludes engineers at the District Assemblies.
On Friday, May 14, this year, the Kaneshie District Court remanded the accused into Police custody but they applied for bail at the High Court.
Strong arguments against outright destruction through burning include illegality of burning, indiscriminate approach impacting legal miners and impunity of Government. Moreover, burning equipment is an expensive waste and has failed before and that rather, equipment should be seized, processed through court and used for other productive purposes by needy state institutions. Also, using the military as the primary enforcement agent is wrong. It should be police.
When you feel stressed or “down,” traveling can make you happier and help you improve your life in so many ways.
Often, it is the mother and the stepmother who have the most difficulty. What can help?
With the way things are going, agitations are getting higher and if care is not taken, we may add members with those other departments.
As a matter of fact, if the policy rate can go down even further it will be great.
Six Chinese nationals, picked up for engaging in illegal mining (galamsey) at Asankragua in the Western Region, have been admitted to bail by an Accra High Court.
Men and women of full age, without any limitation due to race, nationality or religion, have the right to marry and to chanced upon a family. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during marriage and at its dissolution.
The father, according to the prosecution, asked his wife to check what was wrong with the victim, and she confirmed that her daughter was bleeding and also smelled of Robb ointment in her private parts.
So the question of GV 537-20 doesn’t come in at all.
Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal pay for equal work.
In fact, research indicates that people who focus on material things are less excited and more depressed.
Mr Polley was speaking at the Ghana Statistical Service (GSS) 10-day intensive training workshop for potential field officers in the Ellembelle District of the Western Region.
Work is expected to be completed in 10 months time.
No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms
When it comes to dancing, nobody can move like Michael Jackson.
“There are many mines that are operating and for years, they tell us they have not made any profit so they cannot pay any dividend to government. But they keep mining and mining.
That’s what marriage should be about—give and take, not just take.
According to him, it “seeks to truncate the execution of the court’s order.”
Those of us who came here were asked to write our names and form the queue so that we will be served in that order.
Sea cucumbers are animals that live on seabeds and coral reefs.
How? By indulging their child’s every whim, while hesitating to administer any kind of discipline.
Certain fats—in the right amount—can lower your risk of heart disease and keep you feeling your best.
He also disclosed that among the 120 bridges is Dikpe, Iture and Ankobra Bridge, the Volivo cable stay bridge, Adawso to Ekyeamanfrom Bridge over the Volta in Afram Plains, 89 Mabey Bailey Bridges as well as the reconstruction of Buipe, Yapei and Daboya Bridges.
“When completed, these facilities will help to decongest the high number of pupils in the classrooms, promote reading culture among pupils and also provide comfort for teachers who sit under trees to mark scripts,” he added.
Later, approach your mate and ask, “Did you feel that I was really listening to you?”
The state is enforcing through burning because it must necessarily do so if it is to turn the tide in the short term whilst strengthening traditional regulatory measures in the medium to long term.
All are entitled to equal protection against any discrimination in violation of this Declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination.
For example, some parents have been unduly influenced by the self-esteem movement that has become popular in recent decades.
“I did not have to sacrifice my family just to pursue a career.
A child who learns to perform humble tasks at home is more likely to work well with others as an adult
No one may be compelled to belong to an association.
He then charged the police to hunt down the perpetrators and bring them to book.
Achimota School has backed down on its decision to freeze the court order to admit the two Rastafarians boys.
Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat for a white passenger.
Kwabena put a piece of dry ice into a cup of water.
As a matter of fact, this project has already turned into a Deja Vu and in complete limbo.
Rather than taking note of ways in which you feel your partner ought to change, keep a changes-I-need-to-make list.
Obviously, that wouldn’t be fair!
Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers.
Don't be stupid.
You didn't seem to want that book.
But before considering how to compromise, there are a few things you should know about this vital skill.
This kind gesture makes Ghana the first African country to have undertaken such an initiative.
Vice President Bawumia commended the Omanhene of Essikado Traditional Area, Nana Kwabena
Nketsiah V for his “continuous drive and contribution towards a better Ghanaian society for all”.
It's easier to learn a new language when you are young.
Kwabena said that he thought Abena knew where John had chanced upon the key she'd lost.
It said the team arrived at Asankragua and proceeded to Resort Holyday Hotel and Xin Di Hotel and picked up them.
Citi News‘ checks at some centers revealed that although many people turned up very early in the morning, as early as 4:00 am, they had not been served as at 10:00am.
Is there something you want?
The victim was rushed to the Manhyia Hospital for treatment but was pronounced dead on arrival.
I'll eat my hat if, by some chance, my team loses to yours.
In an interview with Citi News, the Executive Secretary of NLC, Ofosu Asamoah, urged the members to resume work ahead of the meeting.
Referee Sulemana Latif has been suspended from football related activities for the rest of the season for failing to award a clear penalty as well as other incorrect decisions in the Division One League match between Skyy FC and Pacific Heroes FC.
When things are calm, try the following exercise with your partner.
he added when all stakeholders contribute their quota to improve teaching and learning environment in schools, pupils would perform better.
Disrespect creates tension in the home and leads to bitter conflict.
These might include not eating enough, binge eating, or denying yourself an occasional treat
The intent to revert to Heathrow is expected to be finalized by July 2021 as that is the winter slot deadline.
A 48-year-old mason has been sentenced to 15 years in prison for defiling a four-year-old girl at Suhum
She doubted how the students were able to pass the exams in the wake of what she described as ineffective teaching and learning amidst alleged widespread leakage of the exam papers, asking Ghanaians not to celebrate it as a success.
The rain and floods have wreaked chaos across the province in the last week. Major roads have been turned into rivers, with cars, debris and even people swept along by fast-moving currents.
“We have political contractors in our midst.
What exactly is dating?
Additionally, some employees are being trained in critical areas such as mineral economics, metal finance, ventilation, and geotechnical engineering to improve their skills and knowledge.
Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution.
Dormitory infrastructural constraints in the school disabled the school from admitting hundreds of first-year students who wanted to be boarders.
On his part, the Chief Executive Officer of the Ghana Chamber of Technology and an ICT Policy and Strategy Specialist and Consultant, Mr. Derrydean Dadzie, was particularly impressed with the Huawei Seeds for the Future Program.
The South Tongu District Director of Agriculture, Ernest Quansah, has appealed on government to urgently
ban the reckless acquisition of lands along river banks by private investors.
Prepare your child for life’s realities.
Later in April, one Prince Charles Dedjoe, a businessman, suspected of killing his wife was also picked up by the police.
I have no role, and I do not participate in their business dealings.”
“I will get the relevant committees to look at the specific laws and work with you to address the concerns,” he added.
Then his achievements will become a source of satisfaction both to him and to you.​
This is the mistake that unfortunately, the allied health professionals are making.”
People laughed at him.
Speaking about the Mime Africa Awards, Akofa Edjeani said the initiative will push movie producers to compete for excellence because low-budgeted movies with no impact will hardly get nominated.
Kwabena wants to escape.
We are beginning to know the persons behind the illegal galamsey.
The flu prevented him from playing golf.
Basically, even at this point I don’t trust myself to make such a decision. When I feel that my personality has been stable for a couple of years, then I’ll think about dating.”
While it is natural to want to protect your children, overprotecting them can send the wrong message—that they do not need to take responsibility for their actions.
The former Education Minister, Prof. Opoku-Agyemang, in a media interaction, discredited the government’s much-touted unprecedented WASSCE results following the implementation of the Free SHS policy.
Similar incidents of robberies are happening across the country.
The Chief of Tinjase, Ubor Mamunin II, lauded Mr. Bless for initiating the school projects.
Judges sometimes refer to it as justification. The key argument is that extraordinary measures overriding current legal rights are permissible if the intent and action is in the line of duty and will preserve larger public interests.
He further stated that “For us at the Ghana Library Authority, this recognition underscores the impact we have made in the last few years in transforming public library service to be responsive to the life-long learning needs of our citizens.”
Always consult your mate when making major decisions about your finances.
A development which led to the Acting Director and Management of the School taking a cue from the double-track system initiated in our Senior High Schools, to introduce a triple-track system,” he added.
Your mind may be on other things just now. If so, do not pretend to listen. If possible, put aside what you are doing and give your mate your full attention, or perhaps you could ask your mate to wait until you are able to do so.
Basically, even at this point I don’t trust myself to make such a decision. When I feel that my personality has been stable for a couple of years, then I’ll think about dating.”
It has to do with driving recklessly, and breaking all the traffic regulations and trying to bribe the police when you are pulled up.
Besides the piano, can you play any other instruments?
The crocodile’s jaw is a surprising combination of power and sensitivity.
The Ellembelle District Census Officer, Mr Isaac Polley, has expressed worry over how a section of the public was “playing politics” with the census exercise and called for a stop to the practice.
Its tenets seemed plausible: If a little praise is good for kids, a lot of praise is better.
The Porcupine Warriors did endure a tough first half and had to wait till the 51st minute before breaking the deadlock through a Fabio Gama penalty.
Another option is to pay off smaller balances first, since receiving fewer bills each month will likely boost your morale.
The ruling that went against the school authorities delivered by Justice Gifty Agyei was received with displeasure, triggering measures to appeal the verdict, per a June 1 communiqué.
On my way home, I fell asleep on the train and rode past my station.
Following the court's decision, Achimota School through its board announced that it will appeal the decision.
Asamoah still has one more month to go before he graduates.
The Bank of Ghana on Wednesday announced it has taken over Beige, Sovereign, Royal, Unibank and Construction banks and merged them into the Consolidated Bank Ghana Limited.
Some expatriates of other countries in Ghana also participated in the noble cause.
Significantly, he has also set up the most empowered institution to deal with political impunity. With our goodwill, The Office of the Special Prosecutor (OSP) will perhaps be the most enduring legacy of President Akufo-Addo, rivalling the mass spread of literacy that the educational reforms will bring.
“I encourage our workers to give in their best because at the end of the day they are going to pay for whatever they are doing. And once you have been paid for it, we need to go out there and do our best so that the programme would be a success.”
I wish it were true.
Another option is to pay off smaller balances first, since receiving fewer bills each month will likely boost your morale.
But these techniques can backfire.
If I knew how to use a computer, maybe they would pay me more.
You're so adorable.
For now, what is going to happen is that gov’t needs to restructure its policies and the policies should engage the private sector,” Dr Mensah said, adding, “the Government must reduce its appetite for borrowing from the local market.”
Speaking to Kasapa FM’s Central Regional Correspondent Yaw Boagyan, he added that their members of the association are furious and becoming impatient towards the continuous invasion of foreigners in the retail business.
For project supervision, the Ministry also engages the services of Consultants,” he added.
Travel lets you think about your life
At a press briefing on Sunday, Government Statistician, Professor Samuel Kakraba Annim, said the Service is taking all the necessary steps to ensure the safe conduct of the exercise.
Many roads in the capital are closed because of the flooding, including the Blackwall Tunnel, the A12 and parts of the North Circular. There are long delays on other routes.
The former Education Minister, Prof. Opoku-Agyemang, in a media interaction, discredited the government’s much-touted unprecedented WASSCE results following the implementation of the Free SHS policy.
That is also how a mother crocodile can carry her hatchlings in her mouth without accidentally crushing them.
Kwaku wants us to follow him.
This digitization journey takes some time, I know where GCB is coming from.
He added that, “I see very experienced senior people in the chamber that is why we have to fall on such experiential knowledge and logic for us not to be caught in this quagmire of confusion”.
Girls can be brutal with their words
“What they did not know is that we are not touching the licenses. It is the illegalities we are touching.
Please fix that.
What an amusing situation!
This is a nationalexerciseand for the next few days we will require you to sacrifice your time and your energy
You probably think you know how to do this, but let me explain it once more.
Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence worthy of human dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by other means of social protection.
Plan ahead. Don’t assume that all the money you have in the bank is available to spend. If you don’t keep money in reserve, you’ll never be prepared for emergencies, such as car repairs
In an interview with Adom News, Kasoa DOVVSU Commander, ASP Dories Larye Aggrey said, the mother
of the victim asked her daughter to live with the suspect when their friendship became intimate.
After all, everyone does!
thus, encourage your child to identify those in need.
Who do you think was watching TV in this room last night?
Government had also assured as by a letter from the Ministry of Finance that the suspension of the quarterly income tax paid by owners of trotros and taxis will be extended to cover intercity commuter vehicles to reduce the operational cost.
Ethiopians will starve unless more convoys are allowed, & much faster.
I acquired a lot of new skills and experience from the trainings from ADRA
Your daughter failed a test? Intervene and demand that the teacher raise the grade.
I want you out of here right now.
This year’s census will be the sixth conducted in Ghana since the post-independence era.
In principle we are not opposed to unitization, but this needs to follow an appropriate, shared work programme and evaluation process to assess the elements listed above before taking decisions in the interest of all parties.
The man I had always relied on had become helpless
Fortunately, no passengers were injured.
Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic production of which he is the author.
Do you know a man named Samba Jackson by any chance?
Residents within Abuakwa Housing, Dadiease and other surrounding communities in the Atwima Nwabiagya South Municipality of the Ashanti region are up in arms over the state of a bridge that connects their communities.
You might find that the aspects that you both feel strongest about are not really all that incompatible.
An oxygen concentrator is a device that concentrates the oxygen from a gas supply by selectively removing nitrogen to supply an oxygen-enriched gas stream.
Try to understand and identify with the other person’s feelings.
A man believed to be in his 30s has killed himself dead after he killed his girlfriend, Melody Owusu, who he allegedly caught with another man.
Images showed entire towns underwater, collapsed buildings, and buried cars.
ome use the silent treatment as a means to get what they want.
I could cook one root in three meals, and I even gave some to my mother,” she says.
Limit your child’s use of social media.
Ghana’s out of pocket expenditure per capita decreased from 38 Dollars in 2010 to 25 Dollars in 2015.
The party was established to empower the people of Ghana to be architects of our own destiny.
When your daughter was a child, she told you everything. Now as a teenager, she has formed a ‘social club’ with her friends, and you feel as if you were not granted membership.
I had no other way of contacting you, so I came here in person.
Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution.
In effect, she is saying, “You hurt me, so I am going to hurt you back.”
The Roads and Highway Ministry has refuted claims that roads construction under the Akufo-Addo administration cost $2 million per kilometre
Ten other officers, including the plane’s crew, also died.
Chelsea were unimpressive in defeat at Wembley on Sunday, but Willian says the team will need time to adapt to Sarri's new way of working.
Travel can strengthen your relationships
“This kind gesture is mainly to show that Ghanaians from Africa are thinking of our Indian brothers and sisters and keeping their well being in our prayers,” he added.
What's the nearest planet to the sun?
ADRA is stepping in to help vulnerable individuals grow nutritious food to feed their families.
In March 2019, when the parties appeared before the court, then-Deputy Attorney General, Godfred Yeboah Dame told the court that as far as the government is concerned, it has already complied with the judgment of the Supreme Court, but NDK continued to make substantiated’ claims for more money.
Members of the Chapter have declared an indefinite strike starting Thursday, 27th May, 2021, over the move, after they started with a one-week sit-down strike.
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality nor denied the right to change his nationality.
Continuing, the oil firm said unitization is appropriate when a hydrocarbon accumulation straddles a contract area boundary or hydrocarbons from one contract area migrate into the other contract area or hydrocarbons are commercially producible on both sides of the contract area boundary.
The GSS is training 280 persons out of which 160 would be selected as field officers to enumerate structures and residents of the District.
This planned visit on Tuesday, 25th May, is in fulfillment of his pledge.
It was not till this morning that it stopped raining.
The Speaker gave the assurance at a meeting with the Private Enterprises Federation (PEF) in Parliament on Tuesday.
“Iam very surprised, the Board cannot take that unilateral position to go back to court", Dr. Adutwum said on Metro Tv's Good Evening Ghana.
But it turned out to be a robbery.
She says: “Thinking back two years ago, what I would have looked for in a potential mate was so different from what I would look for now.
This is the man whose daughter you met yesterday.
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo released his list of deputy ministers on April 21, 2021
On Sunday, the 84-year-old conducted his weekly Angelus prayer from hospital -- appearing publicly for the first time since his surgery a week earlier.
Kwaku didn't expect that Abena would be able to play the harp so well.
Ransford is suspicious of Europeans.
One of the robbers manned the entrance, as the other demanded money after shooting thrice into the roof of the building, said one of the workers.
Exploring a foreign country is fun, but you also have to deal with the language barrier, choosing from a variety of ways to get around, making sure you have an international driving permit, and experiencing new foods and people, which will ultimately make you a tougher person in the long run.
he added when all stakeholders contribute their quota to improve teaching and learning environment in schools, pupils would perform better.
By the time you will come in the next morning, you will realize that almost all of your goods are gone.
Whereas Member States have pledged themselves to achieve, in co-operation with the United Nations, the promotion of universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms,
I bear no grudge against you.
The Rastafarian students, Tyrone IrasMarhguy and Oheneba Kwaku Nkrabea dragged the Achimota School Board of Governors, the Minister of Education, Ghana Education Service, and the Attorney General to court for refusing to enrol them.
Phase One of the project complementing the facilities of the Accra Main Campus located at Makola, at a cost of US$4 million).
The pathologist believes it is problematic for the Allied Health Professional Council to dictate or regulate the functions of physicians and where they should operate from as it was seeking to do with the two hematologists.
You're wrong. That's not the case.
Give genuine consideration to what your mate is saying. This takes a measure of maturity, but it pays off.
He assured that neither himself nor the NDC will do anything against the collective interest of the nation.
The Vice President assured the investor community that while Government welcomes foreign direct
investment, such investment would have to be a partnership that was beneficial to all parties.
Remind your child that everyone is superior to him in one way or another and that instead of being jealous of others’ skills and abilities, he can learn from them.
What is the purpose of dating?
Exploring a foreign country is fun, but you also have to deal with the language barrier, choosing from a variety of ways to get around, making sure you have an international driving permit, and experiencing new foods and people, which will ultimately make you a tougher person in the long run.
Telling your child, “I can see that you put a lot of thought into your drawing,” may do more good than saying, “You’re a natural artist.”
What the program does is that it exposes the students to real -life experiences, asking them what problems can be solved?
We, who are gathered in this room, know the law, which is the chanced uponation of law and order, and the chanced uponation of every organised and progressive society.
Travel lets you think about your life
But that approach can deprive your body of the very nutrients it needs.
The leadership of the Senior Staff Association of Universities of Ghana say they are considering intensifying their three-week-old strike to other departments under their umbrella.
Nana Addo does not have the right, authority, capacity or inclination to stop the media from doing its legitimate work.
What do you recommend?
A key to preventing arguments is identifying the underlying issues that fuel them.
Often, though, such shallow relationships are short-lived.
Industry leaders from academia and ICT ecosystem have praised Huawei’s ICTN Academy and other talent cultivation initiatives of Huawei as a step in the right direction and critical for equipping the youth to be professionals whiles remaining globally.
Remind your child that everyone is superior to him in one way or another and that instead of being jealous of others’ skills and abilities, he can learn from them.
That's a frightening possibility.
Esi never cheats.
In this regard, British Airways had to maintain a certain level of service at the Heathrow airport to keep the slots.
Everyone has the right of equal access to public service in his country.
She embroidered her own initials on the white handkerchief.
Instead of creating well-adjusted, excited children, the self-esteem movement has created an army of little narcissists.
I must observe that graduate students in the past have taken this requirement for granted and I wish to direct the Registrar to invoke the needed sanctions for students who willfully ignore this important prerequisite as part of the admission process.”
I haven't eaten since breakfast. I'm hungry.
According to the Commission, preliminary investigations indicate that the small-scale miners were working illegally at the site which falls within the prospecting license of Adio-Mabas Ghana Limited.
She advised that men support women during menstruation.
He took notice that the establishment of the Bank is in line with the objectives of the European Union, and will help develop Ghana’s private sector, agri-business, manufacturing and ICT initiatives.
“We want foreign investment, there is no doubt about that.
He added, “if you are forced to marry or you force yourself to marry, you might not enjoy a successful marriage life because the love might not be there”.
The flagbearer of the National Democratic Congress (NDC) in the 2020 polls, Mr. John Dramani Mahama has assured Ghanaians that he won’t compromise the nation’s stability.
They are also more likely to be content.
Prove to your child that “there is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.
She added Africans have the expertise, the best weather and content creators, hence the only thing left are investors to fund projects.
Another resident said armed robbers have been breaking into the containers here.”
He, thus, charged the nominees to respect the provisions of the Constitution regarding their nomination and subsequent approval or rejection by the House.
“Nana is indeed a true chip off the old block” Dr Bawumia declared, and called for the sustenance of the
peace enjoyed by the people of Ketan and the nation as a whole.
Traveling builds resilience, and resilient people are typically happier.
You didn't seem to want that book.
As for Charles Adu Boahen who is due for vetting, I want him to do the honourable thing and withdraw Black Star Brokerage before Wednesday.
That's according to the NHIS's Upper West Regional Director, Abass Suleymana.
They have vowed to call off the strike only if the two are withdrawn from the hospital’s laboratory unit.
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile.
He assured that neither himself nor the NDC will do anything against the collective interest of the nation.
You do not need a lot of money to enjoy life.
“They come to view relationships as transitory—which in a sense prepares them for divorce rather than for marriage.”
Sayings like “All your dreams can come true” and “You can be anything that you want to be” might sound inspiring, but they often do not prove true in real life.
Several times a day, you send text messages or talk to this person on the phone. Are you dating?
How can that be, considering the crocodile’s armored skin?
Instead of creating well-adjusted, excited children, the self-esteem movement has created an army of little narcissists.
Even if one person in a marriage handles the finances and pays the bills, both should be fully informed about their financial status. Communication goes a long way in preventing problems
I was flabbergasted.
Witnesses told police that the train was travelling way over the speed limit when it derailed going around the bend.
Being pressured to date before you’re ready would be like being forced to take a final exam for a course that you’ve barely started.
How, then, can you bridge these differences and communicate with your husband or wife? By treating your mate with respect.
It is far better when both partners have a self-sacrificing disposition.
To her, it is out of place for women to think they have to sacrifice their family for their career or vice versa.
But Dr. Adutwum says these assertions should be ignored because they are meant to score cheap political points to run down the New Patriotic Party’s (NPP) flagship program.
The facts, as presented by the prosecutor, Chief Inspector Kofi Atimbire, were that on April 16, 2018, around 7: 30 p.m, the victim’s parents started looking for her when it dawned on them that she was not around, and nobody knew her whereabouts.
These might include not eating enough, binge eating, or denying yourself an occasional treat
Once they saw my harvest, they straightaway decided to learn as well.
Still, extending forgiveness can be difficult​—especially in the close relationship between husband and wife.
That is also part of having shoddy works”.
For instance, “You never listen” might really mean “I feel as if you don’t take my viewpoint seriously.
Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in association with others.
In a press release announcing the winners, the judges of the London Book Fair International Excellence award wrote, “It really struck us as an amazing story of transformation and an example of how library services tackle some of the most pressing issues confronting their users.
For example, some parents have been unduly influenced by the self-esteem movement that has become popular in recent decades.
Achimota School insisted that they comply with the School’s regulations by their dreadlocks shaved.
No matter how compatible you and your partner may seem to be, your views on some matters will differ. Why? Because no two people are exactly alike​—a fact that can add either variety or tension to marriage.
You and your partner have different preferences on something. Realistically, you have at least three options
According to the government, British Airways went ahead with the move without any consultation.
That’s why I like to pack my lunch or take a snack with me. That way, I have a lot more control over what I eat
The next time your mate begins speaking to you, resist the urge to respond immediately.
“It shows the deep roots of friendship that exists between the two communities since independence,” he added.
“We want foreign investment, there is no doubt about that. Our lawyers will say we have given them an
invitation to treat. But that invitation to treat must not be an invitation to cheat. We want partnerships,
and that is why we want a new regime in the mining sector, so that everyone will pay their share.”
Overall, humble people are more connected to others
Now the President is combating his own men.
The question is what for.
No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
Both partners should feel that they have been heard and have had a part in the decision-making process.
View your income, not as your personal money, but as family money.
The Commission is also hiring additional mining engineers to strengthen compliance with the health and safety rules of mining activities.
The Committee however exonerated Referee George Mawuli Vormawah for his performance in the Ghana Premier League match between Berekum Chelsea and WAFA.
Which is the capital of the United States, Washington or New York?
It said the team arrived at Asankragua and proceeded to Resort Holyday Hotel and Xin Di Hotel and picked up them.
But I don’t like the idea of compromise,’ you might say. ‘It sounds as if neither of us will get what we want!
She was shocked to find paraphernalia associated with witchcraft and magical rituals.
The National Labor Commission (NLC), is expected to meet the management of the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital (KATH), the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GALMS), and the Health Ministry next week.
Members of the Indian Community in Ghana have lauded the prompt offer of help, which came from Ghanaians of diverse backgrounds.
John read the letter aloud.
It follows a bloody eight-month battle between the Ethiopian army and the Tigray People Liberation Front (TPLF) for control of the Tigray region.
Do you know a young person who is dealing with a serious health problem? Do you have an illness or disability that prevents you from enjoying the activities that others your age take part in?
No matter what you do, you must follow the correct order.
he added small group discussions using English and local languages would be used to ensure that concepts, definitions and procedures for collecting data were well understood.
“They returned on Saturday, sprinkled petrol on the generator plant, and around our office facility and set fire into them.
President Nana Akufo-Addo has already pledged the services of Ghanaian doctors and nurses to India should they be needed at any time.
Shortly after they begun, we realized that the list had been replaced with another one that had other people.
A key to preventing arguments is identifying the underlying issues that fuel them.
Mr. Bediatuo has rejected outrightly all the claims by the unidentified woman.
Vice President Dr. Bawumia gave an insight into the Akufo-Addo government’s approach to national
development when he was speaking the chiefs and people of the Essikado Traditional Area in the Western
region at the climax of this year’s Kuntum Festival on Saturday 4th September, 2018.
You may also find yourself bonding with your significant other more than usual and connecting with them on a much deeper level.
The Nigerian Air Force said the incident happened as the plane was landing at Kaduna International Airport.
No one may be compelled to belong to an association.
A starving person will eat almost anything.
The couple doesn't combat often these days, but they used to a lot.
She may even shy away from new challenges, fearing that she will fail.
The government was obliged to make changes in its foreign policy.
Normally, we eat three times a day.
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, on Wednesday, 26th May, 2021, cut the sod for the first phase of construction works to begin on the Law Village of the Ghana Law School.
The Nigerian Air Force said the incident happened as the plane was landing at Kaduna International Airport.
First, do not expect that just because you exchanged wedding vows, you and your partner become instant experts at married life.
A financial services firm, CSSL Enterprise, has been burglarized of over ¢140,000 at Buokrom Estate Junction in Kumasi.
Likewise, you should expect to make some embarrassing mistakes as you gain experience in marriage.
Other areas of Ghana's economy such as manufacturing according to him must also be given the needed attention adding that auditors have a big role to play in the financial sector.
Other items chanced upon on the suspects included; knives, a pair of scissors, some leaves suspected to be Indian hemp wrapped in plastic bags and some mobile phones.
It is also expected that each participant would be able to interpret and use an Enumeration Area (EA) Chart, carry out listing of structures and complete a listing form.
With this technology, applicants were expected to receive the results of their applications within 24 hours, with the card containing such vital information as the applicant’s Tax Identification Number, Ghana Post GPS address, and also useable on ATM machines
I don't care who Kwabena talks to.
For example, when we watched TV, I liked sports, but she liked dramas.
Dr. Bossman Asare said election is not about theory but practical.
A life was lost on May 17, 2021 after an underground mining pit which is part of the concession of Anglogold Ashanti Obuasi Mine, caved in and trapped some workers.
How long can the world stand by and watch these atrocities?
Another resident said armed robbers have been breaking into the containers here.”
“We have a regime that we are implementing for the oil sector, and we want to implement the same
regime for the mining sector.
HOW TO TEACH HUMILITY
One is Japanese and the other is Italian.
Dr. Kumah explained that PEG was basically to control the vector that carries the malaria parasite.
The panelists who commended the Central Banks move of merging five insolvent Banks said it is an innovative and efficient intervention.
I thought for a moment Kwame was really going to tell Abena about what happened.
The Minerals Commission in a statement indicated that it visited the site around 11:00 a.m on the day of the incident, and that its Inspectorate Division has commenced full investigations into it.
Additionally, he expressed appreciation to the MP for understanding a number of infrastructure projects in the town.
I never for a moment imagined that I'd be able to meet so many famous people.
Do my children see that I value serving others?
Men and women communicate differently, and they have unique needs. A woman may long to share her feelings openly and often. Many men, on the other hand, try to preserve peace by solving problems quickly and avoiding thorny issues.
Discuss with him what he can do to help them. Commend and support your child as he serves others.
What we are saying is that, we are adding Hubtel to the several options that people have when they need certain things.
“Various caucuses have taken entrenched positions so people want to make sense, people are speaking logic, people are quoting protocols that exist that is binding, and yet nobody listens!.
He may have said so.
The listing of structures is slated for June 13, 2021 across the country with census Night being June 27, 2021.
The union thus pointed out that it will not countenance any more of these avoidable deaths and shall thus not hesitate to withdraw its services if urgent and robust steps are not taken to eliminate and prevent these needless accidents from becoming a recurrent feature of the workplace.
Do not impute bad motives or make dogmatic statements, since these will only put your partner on the defensive.
Work is planned to be completed in 10 months.
Anger has also been linked to insomnia, increased anxiety, skin problems, and stroke.
First, though, there are a few things you should know about the different communication styles of men and women.
The day they will find a quantity of gold or even small pieces of gold I will say it but for now they have not we have not seized anything like that that is why I have not given an update on that particular one” he assured.
“[It] really struck us as an amazing story of transformation and an example of how library services can tackle some of the most pressing social issues confronting their users.
Asamoah couldn't think of any reason for not going.
The total number of Engineers at the Ministry and its agencies is 406.
Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust, non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty.
The Appointments Committee of Parliament is set to commence vetting of the nominees on June 2, 2021, but even before the process starts, the Minority Leader insists some nominees are already engaging in activities pre-empting the work of the committee.
The woman only became suspicious of Mr Anane when she visited his house in the capital, Nairobi, the police said.
We're about to eat.
Sometimes a sense of entitlement can be traced back to how a person was raised.
In this piece, correspondent Emmanuel Mensah-Abludo says the students at the Wa campus are pursuing their courses at the Faculty of Integrated Development Studies, School of Business and Law as well as the Faculty of Planning and Land Management.
I had extremes of very-high-calorie binge days and very-low-calorie strict days. Finally, I decided to stop counting calories, to be careful not to overeat, and to stop eating when I was full. It took time, but now I have a balanced diet.”
Brazil is surrounded by ten countries and the Atlantic Ocean.
Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to just and favourable conditions of work and to protection against unemployment.
Gold Ghana Mining company under whose concession Kate Gyamfua was mining in her capacity as General Manager, has maintained that it is not operating illegally, that, it has all valid documents to mine.
Images showed entire towns underwater, collapsed buildings, and buried cars.
Are you still thinking about applying to Harvard?
They are all acting on the strengths that their government is in power,” he stated.
When she speaks, the world listens.
Ransford is suspicious of Europeans.
But that invitation to treat must not be an invitation to cheat.
Toru and Akiko were in love when they were first married. But only eight months later, this Japanese couple decided to divorce. They relate what happened.
That would hardly help your daughter learn humility.
Miss Tieku describing the situation as worrying, said the misconceptions surrounding menstruation have resulted in most women developing low self esteem.
By the time Asamoah realized what was going on, the police had already picked up Abena.
Before, I cooked pumpkin in a very simple way, and my children didn’t like it at all.
Authorities have resorted to other private laboratories to meet the needs of patients who require such services.
Calls by the Ministry of Health and management of KATH for the scientists to resume work for dialogue to begin have yielded no results.
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile.
An oxygen concentrator is a device that concentrates the oxygen from a gas supply by selectively removing nitrogen to supply an oxygen-enriched gas stream.
When you speak with your former spouse, focus on your children and minimize discussion about other matters.
President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has allayed fears that, the double in track system will destroy the education system as being speculated by a cross section of the Public.
They have developinnovations and they have done quite a lot in terms of that.
Witnesses told police that the train was travelling way over the speed limit when it derailed going around a bend.
ust because you have the money to buy something does not necessarily mean that you should.
Kwabena left Abena alone.
Have I changed that much?
Why are we just splitting heads because medical laboratory scientists believe the laboratory space is for them. It is not for them,” Mr. Akosa said
Next, ask yourself, ‘Is the reason for my anger so serious that I cannot be forgiving?’
This kind gesture makes Ghana the first African country to have undertaken such an initiative.
Aduana Stars beat Eleven Wonders courtesy a goal from Isaac Kwain.
I plead with the Hon. Minister [Naana Jane] that she should measure her words carefully when talking about WASSCE and WAEC”, he added.
My schoolmates started to avoid me
Kwabena drank three cups of coffee after dinner. "No wonder he couldn't sleep."
I hear a gentleman was picked up some few days ago at Jubilee House; one Damoah.
The National Labour Commission hereby directs that with this intervention and in pursuance of section 161 of the Labour Act 2003 (Act 651), the Union should call off the ongoing strike and/or any further intended action immediately for the parties to appear before the Commission as scheduled,” the Commission had said in a statement.
Another resident said armed robbers have been breaking into the containers here.”
They have vowed to call off the strike only if the two are withdrawn from the hospital’s laboratory unit.
Among other things, they are asking for the payment of market premiums and non-basic allowances as well as the finalisation of negotiations for their conditions of service.
Then don’t do that to someone else!
The chief enumerated a number of infrastructure projects the MP carried out in the area, including rural electrification, mechanized boreholes, CHPS compounds, school buildings, and a communication tower.
Who do you think was watching TV in this room last night?
Peter's family lives in Boston.
It is essential that you plan together how you will use your money.
Authorities have resorted to other private laboratories to meet the needs of patients who require such services.
We go to school because we want to learn.
He expects everyone to treat him as special.
Chelsea were unimpressive in defeat at Wembley on Sunday, but Willian says the team will need time to adapt to Sarri's new way of working.
In Germany, the hardest-hit country, entire towns were inundated by water, while train lines and roads were swept away by the flash floods, claiming at least 173 lives.
In some cases, for the sake of peace, it may suffice to agree to disagree and to cover over the matter with love.​
The leadership of the Senior Staff Association of Universities of Ghana say they are thinking about intensifying their three-week-old strike to other departments under their umbrella.
The company believes the new intervention will serve as an avenue to make the lives of both business owners and customers much easier.
If you discover new interests when you’re away from home or realize that you need to make some life changes, you’ll feel motivated to build a better life when you arrive home.
Management, staff, the board over the In the previous years have invested heavily a lot in technology.
But I don’t like the idea of compromise,’ you might say. ‘It sounds as if neither of us will get what we want!
The Speaker gave the assurance at a meeting with the Private Enterprises Federation (PEF) in Parliament on Tuesday.
In Belgium, 24 were confirmed dead.
Others are finicky and will accept only work that meets their highest expectations.
The passion and energy the minister was speaking with yesterday, I love it but he should put that same passion into paying us,” he told Francis Abban on Morning Starr Monday.
Consider three traps that could foster a me-first spirit in your children, and see how you can avoid those traps.
According to CEO of Ghana Chamber of Technologies, Dr. Septemberina Odame, “the country’s digital transformation journey from the inception of mobile money to the widespread availability of digital payment across the country and the growing number of Ghanaians employed within the space is a wonderful opportunity of leveraging technology to democratise crucial services and opportunities to all Ghanaians, regardless of their geographic and demographic’’.
The captain was the last person to leave the sinking ship.
If tempers are beginning to flare and speech is getting out of hand, it might be best to postpone the discussion.
I'm sure you're aware that you'll be the only one there who can't speak French.
A major function of adolescence is to help prepare your son or daughter for that bittersweet day.
Ashanti Gold beat fellow Premier League side King Faisal by a sole goal scored by Gordon K Brokelyn at the Ohene Ameyaw park.
On the other hand, some men and women hesitate to express themselves and feel uncomfortable if their mate pressures them to talk about their feelings.
Then don’t do that to someone else!
When things are calm, try the following exercise with your partner.
‘Necessity’is a legal construct which presumes acting beyond existing law in the interest of protecting a larger public interest. Glanville Williams says;
With the Ghana School of Law being the nation’s sole institution responsible for professional legal education, and for training eligible persons as lawyers and integrating them into the legal system, President Akufo-Addo expressed his delight about the project taking place under his Presidency.
Recently, the Defence Minister, Dominic Nitiwul, warned illegal miners working at night that they do so at their own risk.
The chief enumerated a number of infrastructure projects the MP carried out in the area, including rural electrification, mechanized boreholes, CHPS compounds, school buildings, and a communication tower.
Clearly, when you date someone, you’re affecting that person’s feelings.
One innovation in this field is inspired by the highly flexible arm, or tentacle, of the octopus.
No country has developed significantly without the development of the private sector and it is only banks like GCB that have the capacity to develop the Ghanaian private sector”, he added.
Offering solutions is his way of showing his wife that she can rely on him for help
Tell Kwabena for me, OK?
We will use the law we will enforce the law to close their shops”.
While it is natural to want to protect your children, overprotecting them can send the wrong message—that they do not need to take responsibility for their actions.
In a press statement, the Ghana Private Roads Transport Union (GPRTU) revealed that the increase is to accommodate the increase in fuel prices announced in May 2021, after long negotiations with stakeholders.
“It is also to ensure how to control the anopheles mosquito in limiting the number of vectors.”
You could take on extra shifts at your current job, perform seasonal work, tutor a student, recycle, or make your hobby into a home business.
Whilst describing the decision to establish DBG as “a wise one”, the EIB President added that the Bank sees the partnership with Ghana as a fruitful one, indicating that the EIB will follow keenly the development and workings of DBG in Ghana.
He's very studious.
Of that amount, about GHS18 billion of it was funded through borrowing, and the rest came to us as grants, [along with] some monies from the Stabilisation Fund.”
However, a lot of people have expressed their dissatisfaction with the approach.
This, the statement said, will constitute to the largest road project in Ghana’s history. The statement thus provided details of how much is spent per kilometre of road.
“What is disturbing is that the excavators that have been taken from the mining sites are packed in towns, villages and by roadsides in groups of 10 to 20, and there is a very high tendency that these excavators will find their way back to the galamsey sites during the night when our operations halt.”
Speaking at a press briefing on Wednesday, June 2, he revealed that 592 items including 24 excavators, 341 chanfang machines as well as 123 water pumping machines have been seized and destroyed.
The crash comes three months to the day after a Nigerian military plane crashed short of a runway in the capital Abuja, killing all seven people on board.
Some people eliminate one or more food groups from their diet, thinking that doing so will help them lose weight.
If your attempts at compromise always escalate into heated arguments, it may be that you and your partner are focusing too much on where your views differ.
This new thinking, the Vice President emphasised, was the guiding principle behind the decision to
leverage a fraction of Ghana’s vast bauxite deposits to build an integrated bauxite and aluminium
industry.
Unlimited texting is no guarantee that you will never be lonely
At a press briefing on Sunday, Government Statistician, Professor Samuel Kakraba Annim, said the Service is taking all the necessary steps to ensure the safe conduct of the exercise.
Certain fats—in the right amount—can lower your risk of heart disease and keep you feeling your best.
he added such projects have given Tinjase town and surrounding communities a facelift.
All Joe wanted was for Fati to love him as much as he loved her.
This year’s census will be the sixth conducted in Ghana since the post-independence era.
Judges sometimes refer to it as justification. The key argument is that extraordinary measures overriding current legal rights are permissible if the intent and action is in the line of duty and will preserve larger public interests.
Additionally, seven units of 10-litre-oxygen concentrators are being presented by the Government of Ghana to India’s Ministry of External Affairs, through the Ghana High Commission in New Delhi.
“We will be law-abiding and do nothing to compromise the stability of the country. We will however continue to be the voice of the voiceless and will not be distracted demanding justice and fairness at all times.”
“Neither will we surrender nor fail to champion the rights of all our people to enjoy the fundamental freedoms guaranteed under our constitution.”
Mr. Mahama urged his supporters not to give up on their dreams for the party to come to power.
“The NDC will always remain the party of the people. The party was established to empower the people of Ghana to be architects of our own destiny. We blazed the trail for participatory democracy. And I am confident that out of the ashes of this legal setback, we will mobilize and rekindle the struggle for a better democratic Ghana.”
Mr. Mahama also took a swipe at the Supreme Court saying it has set a “dangerous precedence” by not allowing the Chairperson of the Electoral Commission to testify during the trial.
He thus described it as an “embarrassing stain” on the country’s judicial and electoral systems as well as a major source of worry to well-meaning Ghanaians.
“This is the clear stab in the heart of accountability to the sovereignty of the people of Ghana. Whatever the reasons for not allowing Mrs. Mensa to testify or answer questions, it leaves an embarrassing stain not only on our justice delivery system but also our nation’s electoral system”, a disturbed Mahama lamented.
Then, he’ll patiently take off all the dresses one after the other and heap them on the floor till none is left on him
Instead, ask questions gently and respectfully, and be patient if your mate does not articulate feelings as quickly as you would like.
Such adaptability in electrodes would reduce the likelihood that the body would reject them.
Avoid scheduling activities for your children during the time that they will spend with the other parent.
Meanwhile, Frank AnnohDompreh has been nominated to Chair the Permanent Committee of Rural Economy, Agriculture, Natural Resources and Environment of the Pan – African Parliament.
The MP has cut the sod last Saturday, May 23, for work to begin on the GH¢800,000 projects.
The party was established to empower the people of Ghana to be architects of our own destiny.
A Benjamin Boateng second half brace was enough to send Elmina Sharks past Metro Stars to the next round.
An Economist at the University of Ghana Business School, Dr Lord Mensah, says Ghana’s economy has been in distress since 2017 adding that the government must reduce its appetite for borrowing from the local market.
Such a spirit would make you hard to live with and could seriously harm your marriage.
Some of those who was speaking to Citi News said the vaccines did not arrive until almost midday.
To reduce misunderstandings we should learn the techniques for communicating successfully.
An Educationist and the Head of the Centre for Professional Development at the Ghana Communications Technology University, Madam Araba Hackman Akanji, described the Huawei ICT Academy of which her University is an authorized Academy as well- structured professional certification program that prepares students adequately for the job market.
The man thought the lady was dead, so he then reloaded the gun and killed himself, dying instantly.”
President Nana Akufo-Addo has already pledged the services of Ghanaian doctors and nurses to India should they be needed at any time.
The Minerals Commission in a statement indicated that it visited the site around 11:00 a.m on the day of the incident, and that its Inspectorate Division has commenced full investigations into it.
Similar stories have also been reported in the early part of 2021.
Many young adults have devoured the message and are now in debt, unable to pay for the things they “deserve.”
However, a lot of people have expressed their dissatisfaction with the approach.
Do you know a young person who is dealing with a serious health problem? Do you have an illness or disability that prevents you from enjoying the activities that others your age take part in?
President Muhammadu Buhari has said he is“deeply saddened” by the crash.
Bullies can detect those who think negatively of themselves. These are often the easiest targets, since they’re not likely to combat back.
The GSS is training 280 persons out of which 160 would be selected as field officers to enumerate structures and residents of the District.
I ate dinner last night, but I don't think Kwame did.
Certain fats—in the right amount—can lower your risk of heart disease and keep you feeling your best.
This involves the use of the military to destroy all mining equipment at illegal mining sites and also apprehend illegal miners.
Then discuss your lists together.
Many roads in the capital are closed because of the flooding, including the Blackwall Tunnel, the A12 and parts of the North Circular. There are long delays on other routes.
He told us such a funny story that we all laughed.
The region has seen massive floods because of record rainfall, with at least 51 dead and nearly 400,000 people evacuated from their homes.
A Banking Consultant, Nana Otuo Acheampong said it is about time, premium was put on public financial literacy education, to guard against the collapse of the sector.
Taking the group of children to the library was no problem.
Marriage shall be entered into only with the free and full consent of the intending partners.
Meanwhile, a CNN report indicates that India reported 196,427 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, May 25, the lowest single-day rise in cases since April 14, 2021.
Even when you are alone with your mate, resist the urge to use sarcasm and name-calling.
Limit your child’s use of social media.
Citizens are being bombarded with all kinds of government projects funded with and worth millions of dollars but these projects are wasted in spite of all the expertise at play.
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance.
President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has allayed fears that, the double in track system will destroy the education system as being speculated by a cross section of the Public.
Reduce your utility costs by conserving electricity, water, and heat.
The Operation Halt II patrol that accompanies the team was ordered to destroy logistics chanced upon in these areas,” the statement added.
In a survey of young adults, 81 percent said that the most important goal of their generation is ‘to become rich’—rating it far above helping others.
Kofi bought that camera because Abena thought it was the one he should buy.
We are making progress in our economic sectors also, but we need to do even more to meet the aspirations of our young and growing population, and feature among the leading lights of the world.
Research indicates that unmanaged anger increases your risk of high blood pressure, heart disease, depression, and digestive problems.
Carbohydrates can give you energy.
These might include not eating enough, binge eating, or denying yourself an occasional treat
The Akuapem North Municipal Director of Education has assured students of the Akropong School for the blind that the concerns about their living conditions and treatment meted out to them by their headmistress will be looked into.
On the other hand, the thinking was that showing any type of disapproval will only discourage a child.
The Minority Leader, Haruna Iddrisu, has cautioned Deputy Minister nominees to desist from holding themselves as if they have been approved to function.
President Akufo-Addo reiterated that the provision of this facility signals the determination of Ghana to continue partnering with the EU, with the President informing Dr. Hoyer that Ghana will fall on the EIB to continue to finance other projects in the pipeline, as the country works to recover from the impact of COVID-19.
he judge, Mrs Susana Eduful, had earlier ordered for a pregnancy test on her.
With Hubtel, we open it up more and the thing moves more, the prices eventually come down.”
In a press release announcing the winners, the judges of the London Book Fair International Excellence award wrote, “It really struck us as an amazing story of transformation and an example of how library services tackle some of the most pressing issues confronting their users.
The Appointments Committee of Parliament is set to commence vetting of the nominees on June 2, 2021, but even before the process starts, the Minority Leader insists some nominees are already engaging in activities pre-empting the work of the committee.
COVID-19 cost us [Ghana] about GHS21 billion.
She also claimed that Kofi Eshun had told them that the Gimp was going for 500 million, but did not specify whether the added amount was in cedis or dollars.
He then commanded everyone to lie down, and he took all the money,” Charity narrated the incident amidst tears.
Kwabena decided it wasn't his job to tell Abena about what John had done.
The meeting will seek to find an amicable solution to the stand-off over the posting of two hematologists to the laboratory service department of the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital.
The Bank of Ghana on Wednesday announced it has taken over Beige, Sovereign, Royal, Unibank and Construction banks and merged them into the Consolidated Bank Ghana Limited.
Vice President Bawumia indicated that a new fiscal regime similar to the one prevailing in the oil sector
would soon be introduced in the mining sector.
They talk a lot, particularly at mealtimes. And when my husband cooks, he uses the same cloth to dry the dishes and to clean his hands!
Often, though, such shallow relationships are short-lived.
“You can have a license but if you were destroying the water bodies, the soldiers were supposed to make sure that they take out the equipment that you were using.
According to him, those allegations are “outright and blatant lies.”
“I, thus, consider it necessary to put out this statement because the allegations made in the audio recording have no iota of truth, are pure fabrications, and are malicious, with the sole aim of courting public disaffection for me as a senior official of this government.”
Then take your child along as you assist some of them.
The couple doesn't combat often these days, but they used to a lot.
You can feel the worst kind of loneliness when you’re surrounded by friends but they don’t seem to love you back or need you.
But when it is used as a means to retaliate or manipulate, the silent treatment not only prolongs conflict but also erodes the respect the couple have for each other.
Mr Amoako-Attah said that government has never and cannot promise to fix all of Ghana’s roads within a four-year period.
Instead, help her to see how she may do better next time. Reserve praise for actual accomplishments.
When we travel, we can easily forget about our stressors and recharge.
The complaint has also featured prominently lately in the the reports of external examiners at the university
It's unlikely that anything serious will happen.
There will be innocent victims.
In conclusion, the lack of self-restraint within the general populace, if not addressed resolutely, will overwhelm every progressive initiative of Government.
He will have spent all his money by the end of the month.
Instead of learning that they can survive pain and disappointment, and even learn from it, [such] children grow up extremely self-centered, convinced that the world and their parents owe them something.
I demanded that my husband be tidier. But my bossy approach only seemed to make him more stubborn
She further advised movie producers to copyright their works at National Film Authority to avoid infringements that will go a long way to affect them.
Now the President is combating his own men.
A financial services firm, CSSL Enterprise, has been robbed of over ¢140,000 at Buokrom Estate Junction in Kumasi.
“She does not state the date or time of the encounter the place where the meeting took place, and the names of the elders and chiefs who accompanied her to the meeting.
Strong arguments against outright destruction through burning include illegality of burning, indiscriminate approach impacting legal miners and impunity of Government.
It has to do with not getting the proper permit to build a house, and it has to do with looking the other way when something wrong is going on.
For project supervision, the Ministry also engages the services of Consultants,” he added.
All right, but don't say I didn't warn you.
I demanded that my husband be tidier. But my bossy approach only seemed to make him more stubborn
It has to do with petty bribery and corruption, and it has to do with bribery and corruption on a grand scale.
As soon as he finished his work, he went home.
Isn't it about time you guys buried the hatchet and let bygones be bygones?
We often hear it said that the Japanese are good workers.
“I strongly disagree, and I will advise those who take a contrary view to go to court to vindicate their position if they so wish
That's the worst thing that could possibly happen.
In an interview with Y107.9FM’s Rev Erskine on the Y LeaderBoard Series, she, however, revealed that at a point in one’s life, “there are many times you will have to sacrifice work to be with family.”
irst, try to see things from your partner’s viewpoint. This will help you to develop empathy​
Family Life Counsellor, Rev. Vincent Akwaa, bewailed the recent increase in reported cases of broken homes; a phenomenon he blamed on the reason that most people marry out of pressure.
A 48-year-old mason has been sentenced to 15 years in prison for defiling a four-year-old girl at Odorkor in Accra.
Rescuers on Friday were still trying to reach survivors across the sprawling region, which is home to more than 90 million people.
“I will mention to all persons in Ghana that we are taking all the necessary steps to ensure that the census adheres to the strict protocols of COVID-19.
What is your reason for your being late to work?
Anger that is allowed to fester can be like a disease that harms you from inside.
They buried him in the graveyard by the church.
So the question of GV 537-20 doesn’t come in at all.
First, determine for each debt the interest rate, the fees, the impact of a late or missed payment, and the possibility that a payment is already overdue
“That’s fine” might really mean “That’s not fine”—depending on how it is said.
The Akuapem North Municipal Director of Education has assured students of the Akropong School for the blind that the concerns about their living conditions and treatment meted out to them by their headmistress will be addressed.
He warned that government against any move to cover up his arrest.
In an interview with Adom News, Kasoa DOVVSU Commander, ASP Dories Larye Aggrey said, the mother
of the victim asked her daughter to live with the suspect when their friendship became intimate.
But striving for wealth does not bring contentment.
This does not mean that you should criticize your child for every mistake.
he judge, Mrs Susana Eduful, had earlier ordered for a pregnancy test on Rita.
On the critical roads programme, the Minister said part of the roads to be completed are; Navrongo to Naga stretch the Wa to Bulenga to Yaala road, Salaga to Ekumdipe to Kpandai road which is 60% complete, upgrading of Yagaba to Mankarigu road as well as the upgrading of Daboya to Mankarigu road among hosts of road projects
I try to have balanced meals from all food groups.
Before, when I planted cassava, I could only get a few small cassava roots
Now your partner starts talking to you—something about expecting some visitors tonight.
It seems that no one knew the truth.
Phar Rangers pulled one of the upsets of the competition so far beating Dreams FC 4-2 on penalties after the game ended 2-2 in regular time.
You drop the issue, but the tension lingers. You reconsider apologizing, but you cannot bring yourself to say those simple words “I’m sorry.”
His political equanimity is evident in his relations with the current Parliament, especially Rt. Hon Speaker.
The older I get, the more clearly I remember things that never happened.
In Madagascar, the Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA) is training people to grow successful vegetable gardens, raise poultry, and make handcrafts to supplement lost income during the COVID-19 pandemic.
I think this is the role a bank like GCB must lead, Mr. Adomakoh told Joy Business Odelia Ntiamoah in an exclusive interview.
Clearly, when you date someone, you’re affecting that person’s feelings.
Travel makes you more resilient
Kwabena seems to be unwilling to be a suicide bomber.
Hurtful speech is more often a problem of the heart than of the mouth.
Ashanti Gold beat fellow Premier League side King Faisal by a sole goal scored by Gordon K Brokelyn at the Ohene Ameyaw park.
There are 2,586,782 confirmed active cases in the country, according to the health ministry.
Take this folding umbrella with you. It might come in handy.
Pack a lunch or snack instead of eating out regularly. Use grocery coupons and other special offers.
We also tend to remember the good parts of our travels and forget the stressful parts in the long term, so travel makes us feel warm and fuzzy inside.
I would say that the gap between the policy rate and interest rates in still high.
Asamoah had his ear pressed to the door, trying to hear what was going on in the next room.
The panel of judges in their remark stated that they were amazed about the story of the transformation of library services.
Work is expected to be completed in 10 months.
“We know that they do that from 9:00pm to 4:00am. That’s how brave they are. We know, and we know the towns they are doing it in, so we will come after you. Don’t try it,” Mr. Nitiwul warned.
Loneliness can stem from insecurities. It’s hard to reach out and be open to friendships when you don’t feel that you are worth another person’s interest
Give genuine consideration to what your mate is saying. This takes a measure of maturity, but it pays off.
The Anti-galamsey military task force (Operation Halt) has reportedly returned to the mining site of the ruling New Patriotic Party, Women’s Organizer for the third time to burn a generator plant and a wooden office structure at the mining site.
Vice President Dr. Bawumia gave an insight into the Akufo-Addo government’s approach to national
development when he was speaking the chiefs and people of the Essikado Traditional Area in the Western
region at the climax of this year’s Kuntum Festival on Saturday 4th September, 2018.
The boy lost his ear in a street combat.
Kofi and Ama got married when they were very young.
President Nana Akufo-Addo has already pledged the services of Ghanaian doctors and nurses to India should they be needed at any time.
This he added the contract has been awarded with the preliminary designs submitted pending approval for work to begin.
You can get discouraged when you see others who seem to eat whatever they want yet suffer no ill effects. Don’t compare yourself to them. Find out what works for you and focus on that.
Granted, some of your peers might take a casual view of dating.
From the direction that he was going in, I would say he was headed to town.
This is the mistake that unfortunately, the allied health professionals are making.”
They say you shouldn't take rumors seriously, but that's easier said than done.
The demographics here too is very great.
Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the chanced uponation of freedom, justice and peace in the world,
Instead of learning that they can survive pain and disappointment, and even learn from it, [such] children grow up extremely self-centered, convinced that the world and their parents owe them something.
He said it didn't matter whether we stayed or left.
A key to preventing arguments is identifying the underlying issues that fuel them.
The school's board in a statement on Wednesday, june 2, 2021, said it is however committed to an appeal against the ruling of the High Court.
Her mother's body was only chanced upon on Thursday. Rescuers told Beijing Youth Daily that when they discovered her body, it was frozen in a position that seemed like she was lifting something up.
Kwabena stayed in touch with Abena.
The Deputy Director of Public Health (DDPH) in the Ashanti Region, Dr. Michael Rockson Adjei, has emphasized that Larval Source Management (LSM), is a crucial malaria control intervention.
They are all acting on the strengths that their government is in power,” he stated.
Another woman at the Mamprobi Polyclinic said, “I fall in the category. I was called on phone.
“It is also to ensure how to control the anopheles mosquito in limiting the number of vectors.”
These will be given out for free.
If you think of your partner as your teammate rather than your opponent, you will be less likely to take offense, argue, and then refuse to talk to your partner.
A Benjamin Boateng second half brace was enough to send Elmina Sharks past Metro Stars to the next round.
WHY IS HUMILITY IMPORTANT?
No one may be compelled to belong to an association.
Vice President Dr. Bawumia gave an insight into the Akufo-Addo government’s approach to national
development when he was speaking the chiefs and people of the Essikado Traditional Area in the Western
region at the climax of this year’s Kuntum Festival on Saturday 4th September, 2018.
The Committee however cautioned Assistant Referee 2, Gifty Bonney to be conversant with the Laws of the Game.
First, do not expect that just because you exchanged wedding vows, you and your partner become instant experts at married life.
As soon as I can get my son to scan our family photos, I'll upload some of them to our website.
Mine was delivered on June 18, 2020”
What were we thinking?
Prof. Galaa conferred a full junior membership on the students and advised them sign the Matriculation Register, saying: “You should note that failure to sign the Register implies that you would forfeit the admission into this University for this academic year.
IF YOU are newly married, have you faced similar challenges? Does it seem that your mate suddenly has acquired faults and foibles that were absent when you were dating?
On the AK-47 that was retrieved, the police suspect that it was a police weapon.
My significant other works at a language school and loves it very much.
In March 2019, when the parties appeared before the court, then-Deputy Attorney General, Godfred Yeboah Dame told the court that as far as the government is concerned, it has already complied with the judgment of the Supreme Court, but NDK continued to make substantiated’ claims for more money.
Dr. Kumah explained that PEG was basically to control the vector that carries the malaria parasite.
I like him not because he is kind but because he is honest.
We don't want to do what I'm planning to do, but I have no choice.
How to End “the Silent Treatment
It has to do with sharp practice and unethical behaviour by some lawyers, which jeopardise the administration of justice and the interests of ordinary people.
What if your partner is reluctant to speak up? Recognize that “a person’s thoughts are like water in a deep well, but someone with insight can draw them out.”
He also disclosed that among the 120 bridges is Dikpe, Iture and Ankobra Bridge, the Volivo cable stay bridge, Adawso to Ekyeamanfrom Bridge over the Volta in Afram Plains, 89 Mabey Bailey Bridges as well as the reconstruction of Buipe, Yapei and Daboya Bridges.
The 2021 Population and Housing Census (PHC), with the slogan, ‘You Count, Get Counted’, will provide the opportunity for the country to gather credible and comprehensive data about the citizenry towards transforming the economy for sustainable development.
The nominee, who served as a deputy Finance Minister in President Akufo-Addo’s first term, made this known when he appeared before the Appointments Committee of Parliament today, Wednesday, June 2, 2021
The Committee also handed Referee Selorm Kpormegbe a six-match suspension for his inability to whistle when an attacker was recklessly fouled in the Ghana Premier League match between Karela FC and Bechem United FC.
I ate half the apple before I noticed there was a worm in it.
Reminisce about activities you once enjoyed together.
The 29-year-old has caught the attention of several of Europe's largest clubs this summer, including Barcelona and Manchester United.
As is public knowledge, I am the Secretary to the President and not the President’s was speakingsperson.”
Meanwhile, the full details of the court proceedings, according to the Chief Justice, would be ready on or before June 4, 2021
Please don't make so much noise. I'm trying to study.
To this end, the scheme will ensure financial sustainability of the scheme through innovative efficiency measures which include: Proposed additional funding sources; digitization of membership registrations and renewals; rolling out electronic-claim nationwide; strengthening quality assurance and financial auditing for improved accountability to the public as well as the review of the current law to introduce measures that allows stiffer sanctions to reduce fraud and other malfeasance to serve asa deterrent to criminal minds.
The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures.
Whether on the phone or face-to-face, in the open or in secret, if you and a friend of the opposite sex have a special romantic understanding and communicate regularly, it’s dating.
Spend your time wisely and you'll always have enough of it.
the reports indicated that Jay Dordorye, [26 years] the boyfriend of the deceased, reportedly inflicted knife wounds on Harriet Kafui Ahiati (deceased) and attempted to commit suicide.
26-year-old Jay Dordoye is said to have slit his girlfriend’s throat and tried hanging himself after the incident. After failing in hanging himself, he resorted to stabbing himself multiple times.
“… I began this address by indicating that I wanted us to be frank in our discussions about ourselves and about our conduct in the practice of our profession.
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance.
Prosecution said during the arrest, six pump action guns and cash of GHC1,292,180, sandy substances suspected to be gold dust, a yellow bar suspected to be a gold bar, and liquid substances suspected to be mercury, were chanced upon.
Whereas it is essential to promote the development of friendly relations between nations,
If anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he is deceiving himself.
Reacting to the comment, the Chief Executive Officer of the Ghana Chamber of Construction Emmanuel Cherry said alot of roads would have been fixed by now if the government had followed agreements.
Speaking after Chelsea's 2-0 defeat to Manchester City in the Community Shield, Willian said: "I've always made it very clear that I've always been very excited playing for Chelsea. I never said that I want to leave the club.
The Deputy Northern Region Police Commander, DSP Moses Atibilla, said they had been “terrorizing innocent citizens in Tamale here.”
The high penetration of mobile money and increased digital payments in the country for productivity and growth of the Ghanaian economy.
A youth named Sandra says: “Part of me wants to say that dating should be just for fun, but it’s no fun when one person is taking it seriously and the other isn’t.”
The question is what for.
The Chief Executive Officer of Hubtel limited, Alex Bram was speaking to City BusinessNews on the sidelines of the opening of the company’s office in Kumasi.
A man believed to be in his 30s has killed himself dead after he killed his girlfriend, Melody Owusu, who he allegedly caught with another man.
hey made me feel worthless, unwanted, and good-for-nothing. I’d rather have been given a black eye.
With this technology, applicants were expected to receive the results of their applications within 24 hours, with the card containing such vital information as the applicant’s Tax Identification Number, Ghana Post GPS address, and also useable on ATM machines
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance.
No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
According to the Association’s General Secretary Thomas Musa, “this ruling will not affect teacher-student relationship”
Akua decided to go to Gbawe Palace
Make your own meals instead of relying on whatever is available when you are outside the home.
Before marriage, you might have been accustomed to making unilateral decisions
“This kind gesture is mainly to show that Ghanaians from Africa are thinking of our Indian brothers and sisters and keeping their well being in our prayers,” he added.
This entails an appraisal programme of the Afina area including (but not limited to) production and interference tests in order to understand the potential benefit that a unitization of the Sankofa field and the Afina discovery could deliver.”
Children who are considerate are more likely to make friends and to enjoy stable relationships.
Talking to my sons used to be pleasant. They listened carefully to what I had to say, and they responded immediately.
If you have to cancel an outing or a vacation, you could explain that disappointments are part of life and perhaps discuss how you deal with such disappointments.
Some expatriates of other countries in Ghana also participated in the noble cause.
A troubled resident who was speaking to City News said “almost every week there are arme3d robbers patrolling all over this place”.
She asked him to not quit his job because they were poor and needed the money.
The man and his wife helped each other.
True, not talking may quench your thirst for retaliation or compel your partner to give in to your wishes.
Many drivers abandoned their cars in the snow.
“We were all in our room and we heard a loud noise ‘boom’. Some of us even thought it was a knockout.
In the continent Africa, Ghana is largely considered the leader in the digital transformation agenda.
The pandemic has pushed 1.38 million people into extreme poverty in Madagascar, according to the World Bank.
Dr. Adjei made the statement while speaking to journalists at the end of a one-day LSM training session held for health workers in Kumasi in the Ashanti Region, on Friday, May 21, 2021.
One other staff who sensed danger when the two men stepped into the premises, dashed to the washroom to place a phone call to a neighbour, Collins Dapaah, for help.
Just give me some time. I'm sure I can figure out how to solve the problem.
No one enjoys living with a partner who believes “it’s either my way or the highway.
“I know there are some who believe that the ongoing exercise of ridding our water bodies and forest zones of harmful equipment and machinery is unlawful and, in some cases, harsh.”
Parents want to make their children excited, and children want stuff,
Simply telling a child that he or she is “awesome” does not encourage humility. Be specific.
In the provincial capital of Zhengzhou, at least 12 people died when floodwaters inundated an underground subway line on Tuesday night.
I can't feel at home in a hotel.
Speaking on the innovative and ubiquitous approach of the Huawei ICT Academy, Madam Araba Hackman Akanji was marveled at how the program continued to attract students even during the heat of the COVID-19 pandemic when schools closed down.
Mr. Adomakoh said his outfit is poised to reposition itself as the most dominant bank in the country to deliver commitment in service, in value to customers, to grow indigenous Ghanaian businesses.
Men and women of full age, without any limitation due to race, nationality or religion, have the right to marry and to chanced upon a family. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during marriage and at its dissolution.
Reacting to the comment, the Chief Executive Officer of the Ghana Chamber of Construction Emmanuel Cherry said alot of roads would have been fixed by now if the government had followed agreements.
The success of your future relationships will depend on your ability to communicate and negotiate, and there’s no better place to cultivate such skills than within your family.
Afrifa couldn't find Abena even though he said he looked just about everywhere.
Strong arguments against outright destruction through burning include illegality of burning, indiscriminate approach impacting legal miners and impunity of Government.
True, not talking may quench your thirst for retaliation or compel your partner to give in to your wishes.
Adding that,"while the Board remains committed to the appeal against the High Court ruling, it will withdraw the application for a stay of execution pending the determination of the appeal by a higher court."
Motherhood and childhood are entitled to special care and assistance. All children, whether born in or out of wedlock, shall enjoy the same social protection.
Some experts say that holding on to resentment can put you at greater risk for a wide range of physical and emotional problems, including depression and high blood pressure​—not to mention the damage it does to your marriage.
Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to just and favourable conditions of work and to protection against unemployment.
Whilst describing the decision to establish DBG as “a wise one”, the EIB President added that the Bank sees the partnership with Ghana as a fruitful one, indicating that the EIB will follow keenly the development and workings of DBG in Ghana.
With the Ghana School of Law being the nation’s sole institution responsible for professional legal education, and for training eligible persons as lawyers and integrating them into the legal system, President Akufo-Addo expressed his delight about the project taking place under his Presidency. “I have been reliably informed that 1,000 students were admitted during the 2020/2021 academic year, a development which led to the Acting Director and Management of the School taking a cue from the double-track system initiated in our Senior High Schools, to introduce a triple-track system,” he added.
So when we did, we saw his lifeless body in front of his steering wheel with blood in the car,” he told JoyNews.
I visited Boston.
Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests.
Every time you get together with your friends, you pair off with the same person of the opposite sex. Are you dating?
We cannot continue on this lane forever, we have to make sense. We are thinking beings,” he pleaded with his colleague Parliamentarians.
Leave me alone or I'm going to call security.
Asamoah wasn't excited.
The lure of easy credit can also make it easy for newlyweds to overspend.
How can you prevent that from happening to you?
But the IT consultant is disturbed that Ghana and other African countries “tend to leapfrog on technological advancement and not going through the same pathway that other advanced countries use.”
Having lots of friends is no guarantee that you will never be lonely.
“There are many of them who are in such a hurry to assume office even while Parliament has not even considered their nomination.
It would be recalled that on Thursday 25th March,2021, one Emmanuel Antwi aged 40 now deceased was robbed of Toyota Prado vehicle by three armed men,” he added.
Rather, a person with humility takes genuine interest in others and is willing to learn from them.
The Deputy Northern Region Police Commander, DSP Moses Atibilla, said they had been “terrorizing innocent citizens in Tamale here.”
The first step to ending the silent treatment is to recognize it for what it is—a tactic that, at best, works only short-term.
Abena thinks martial arts are silly.
Kotoko held on to start their title defence on a strong note as they march on to the round of 32 stage after a comfortable victory at the Nana Gyamfi Park in Bekwai.
Write down all of your expenses, no matter how small, for a month. That will help you to figure out where your money is going and to identify any unnecessary expenditures.
We the inhabitants will pay for it.
President Nana Akufo-Addo has already pledged the services of Ghanaian doctors and nurses to India should they be needed at any time.
Swap papers with your partner, and read each other’s comments. What was your partner’s deeper concern during the argument?
Members of the Indian Community in Ghana have lauded the prompt offer of help, which came from Ghanaians of diverse backgrounds.
On the AK-47 that was retrieved, the police suspect that it was a police weapon.
According to President Akufo-Addo, the double track system will not be applicable in all Senior High Schools but in schools facing infrastructure challenges due to a large number of students admitted under the free SHS programme.
The incident happened at Alavanyo Wududi in the Hohoe Municipality of the Volta Region in the early hours of Wednesday, May 26, 2021.
A joint operation by the counter-terrorism unit of the Ghana Police Service in the Northern Region led to the arrest of two people with an AK-47 rifle and pump-action guns in Tamale.
In a country where three-out-of-four people are poor, almost two-thirds of households reported a decline in income since the beginning of the pandemic.
Financial analysts on GBC's Current Affairs Programme ‘Talking point’ have urged the Central Bank to put in place strict directives and measures to prevent recurrence of liquidation in the financial sector.
“One of the things I want to do is to engage civil society to present drafts on the proposed amendments that will better serve the business community.
Another resident said armed robbers have been breaking into the containers here.”
Kwabena doesn't think he can win.
This right may not be invoked in the case of prosecutions genuinely arising from non-political crimes or from acts contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.
This kind gesture makes Ghana the first African country to have undertaken such an initiative.
“Ordinarily, I will not dignify such baseless allegations with a response to give it impetus in the media space. However, such false allegations in the manner presented can be believed by some people.”
Do I let my children know that at times I also need help from others?
The five food groups include dairy products, proteins, fruits, vegetables, and grains.
Everyone has the right to a nationality.
It's not why I'm here.
When your partner does speak, “be swift about hearing, slow about speaking, slow about wrath.”
I get the sense that sometimes parts of the work can be a little boring, and I don’t want to be bored.
Belgium held a day of mourning on Tuesday for its flood victims - the death toll is at least 31.
According to him, no such meeting has taken place between him and anyone on the subject matter.
That irritates me! Why are men so difficult to understand? How do people make a marriage succeed?”
Ghana’s debt crosses GHS300 billion mark as debt-to-GDP ratio drops to 70.2%
“With the overall objective of creating a favourable environment to spur private sector-led growth, the Government of Ghana recognizes the importance of a substantial allocation of development capital to critical economic sectors at sustainable interest rates and longer tenures.
I think her efforts to appear strong actually hinder her ability to make friends. The people she meets get the impression that she is cold, and for people who are not persistent, that is a deterrent
What's the nationality of that cameraman over there?
Granted, some of your friends might take a casual view of dating.
This is happening few months after a 53-year-old man was killed and killed in the same community during a disagreement over palm wine.
The investment banker who has always chased after equalisation called a friend of hers after the incident and said, “Jack, I give up, I am no more talking about equalisation, all I am talking about now is equity because as a woman entrepreneur and female leader, there will always come a time where you need to sacrifice some major transactions for family duties.”
Toru did whatever his family asked, but he did not consult with me. I asked him, ‘Who is more important to you, your mother or me?
He will have spent all his money by the end of the month.
From birth onward, a child’s life is a list of firsts​—the first steps taken, the first word was speakingn, the first day of school, to name just a few. Parents rejoice when their child reaches a milestone.
If he doesn't accept the job, somebody else will.
Dr Mensah also wondered how the Akufo-Addo led government has borrowed so much with little to show for in terms of infrastructural development.
“The Ministry of Health was handling it earlier, so we were expecting that it would be solved, but as it stands, there is a need for us to step in.
Under her watch as the Minister of Education in 2015, 23.9% of the students obtained Al to C6 in Maths.
We also think that the lifestyle of people in Kumasi is also a Hubtel lifestyle.
Asamoah abstained from voting.
I heard you were having problems at the office.
The Laboratory Scientists have been on a sit-down strike for close to a week now, in protest against the decision.
Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits.
He further explained that Ghana’s roads would not have been in their current state if previous governments had tackled the road sector in a serious and robust manner like the way President Akufo-Addo’s administration is doing.
The country conducted a National Census in 1960, 1970, 1984, 2000, and 2010.
Mr. Chairman, as I mentioned earlier, I resigned from the board and management of Black Star Advisors in 2017.
In the trainings, I learned new recipes and put them into practice.
The MP urged chiefs and opinion leaders in the area to support initiatives that would facilitate teaching and learning in schools.
The ceremony took place at the Academic Enclave near the University of Ghana Business School.
Efie threatened us.
A youth named Sandra says: “Part of me wants to say that dating should be just for fun, but it’s no fun when one person is taking it seriously and the other isn’t.”
he added this has become necessary to improve access to fresh water bodies for irrigated farming and
other agricultural purposes.
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.
A former Director-General of the Ghana Health Service, Professor Agyemang Badu Akosa, has hit hard at members of the Komfo Anokye Chapter of the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GAMLS) who are protesting the posting of the two hematologists to the Laboratory Service Department of the hospital.
Do you know her father?
Whereas it is essential, if man is not to be compelled to have recourse, as a last resort, to rebellion against tyranny and oppression, that human rights should be protected by the rule of law,
Dr. Hoyer, on his part, was confident that the establishment of Development Bank Ghana will help unlock opportunities for growth in Ghana, as well assist in the rapid recovery of the Ghanaian economy from the ravages of COVID-19.
We, thus, encourage government to keep to its commitment in this regard.
At that meeting on April 12, 2021, at the Indian High Commission in Accra, the High Commissioner, Mr. Rajaram expressed his desire to visit Yendi saying “it will be exciting and great for India to collaborate with the people of Yendi in areas of skills training, information, technology, and medicine,”
I should go home and get some sleep.
President Muhammadu Buhari has said he is“deeply saddened” by the crash.
The hospital staff reported late to their duty
Our work matters. It affects prochanced uponly the ordering of the state.
For example, some parents have been unduly influenced by the self-esteem movement that has become popular in recent decades.
Dating should have an honorable purpose—to help a young man and woman determine if they want to get married to each other..
The suspect masquerades as a preacher, approaches innocent women looking for love and affection online, with promises of making their lives better before fraudulently obtaining money from them.”
A 22-year old boy identified as Akwesi Mensah has stabbed his father to death at Assin Manso in the Assin South District in the Central Region.
Mr. Frank Adu Jnr, a former Managing Director of CalBank Limited, told the GNA that Ghanaians were deeply touched by the plight of their siblings, hence their decision to support them with oxygen concentrators.
He has overseen an explosion in social media-attracting both Google and Twitter.
Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to just and favourable conditions of work and to protection against unemployment.
Is there an elevator?
This will make you better able to understand what your mate is saying
You might have acquired valuable social skills when you were single, and they might have improved while you were dating.
Kwabena drank three cups of coffee after dinner. "No wonder he couldn't sleep."
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile.
Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status.
The number of students going abroad to study is increasing each year.
But that approach can deprive your body of the very nutrients it needs.
We need to develop not only providing them with financing but developed them with capacity and governance etc.
I think that it's possible.
You shouldn't say such a thing in the presence of children.
These might include not eating enough, binge eating, or denying yourself an occasional treat
It is instructive to note that the $30 million Yendi Water Project is funded by a facility from the Indian Exim Bank, and it is being executed by WAPCOS, an Indian civil engineering/consultancy firm.
This excludes engineers at the District Assemblies.
He also challenged the ‘inherent jurisdiction of the Supreme Court based on which the AG had filed the application.
One other staff who sensed danger when the two men stepped into the premises, dashed to the washroom to place a phone call to a neighbour, Collins Dapaah, for help.
They have, however, not been able to execute the bail bond.
What is happening then? To answer that question, let us consider the pivotal role that adolescence plays in your child’s development.
Having benefited from such a facility, the present initiative serves as a kind gesture of gratitude from Ghanaians towards India.
If you don’t have meaningful relationships, online friends are as good to you as lifeless figurines.
We're about to eat.
Spend your time wisely and you'll always have enough of it.
he added the application of larvicide was done at various mosquito breeding sites that could be dredged.
Meanwhile, the association hopes to foster good relationships with the municipality to enable them to empower and educate more teenagers.
Travel lets you think about your life
Travel can strengthen your relationships
A bulletproof vest was also retrieved from the suspects upon a search of their car.
But you may have paused before responding to the second and the third.
Even some parents may unwittingly sow the seeds of a me-first spirit.
If you are a parent, how can you help your children to reap the benefits of being kind and to avoid being contaminated by the self-absorbed culture that surrounds them?
The introduction of data incentives among other interesting packages saw our numbers rise and between 2020 and now, over 470 students have taken the course“she added.
A Banking Consultant, Nana Otuo Acheampong said it is about time, premium was put on public financial literacy education, to guard against the collapse of the sector.
The Headmistress of Seventh Day Adventist (SDA) Senior High School in Koforidua -Asokore in the Eastern Region is being investigated by the National Intelligent Bureau (NIB) for administrative infractions.
Kwabena stayed in touch with Abena.
The Vice Chancellor of UDS, Prof Teye equally requested all heads of departments to make use of plagiarism software known as “Turn-it-in” acquired by the University to improve the originality of all research work.
Only one UN food convoy has successfully reached Mekelle this month
However, if these African stories are championed, it could attract a lot more investors who will also sell the movie in the international market, the Aloe Vera actress said.
Each accomplishment, no matter how small, was celebrated; each indiscretion, no matter how large, was overlooked.
Accept each other as you are, and respect what is different about your mate. To illustrate: Your eyes work differently than your ears; yet they cooperate so you can cross the road safely.
The possibility that the explosion was caused by carelessness cannot be ruled out.
If your daughter scores well on a school test, commend her. If she gets a low grade, do not automatically blame the teacher.
he added, “the security men were deployed by the Company to protect the site so people don’t come around to steal but they were beaten by the military with the butt of the rifles”.
Dating should have an honorable purpose—to help a young man and woman determine if they want to get married to each other.
Whatever the cause, frequent arguing can adversely affect your health and can even be a predictor of eventual divorce. How, then, can you stop arguing?
The Ambulance Service consequently dispatched some officers to look into the matter.
“As many more lawyers are trained, it is my hope that, indeed, many more of them will join the public sector to enhance the quality of legal service delivery in the sector.
The facility, which provides sitting space for 150 people also has restrooms and a place for banking services
The Vice Chancellor of the Gimpa Prof Samuel Afful says “the reports reaching his office indicate that some supervisors hardly give quality guidance to the students assigned to them and this does not help in the production of quality thesis.”
Some issues may be relatively easy to settle.
Do you know a young person who is dealing with a serious health problem? Do you have an illness or disability that prevents you from enjoying the activities that others your age take part in?
Whose responsibility was it in ensuring that the new system worked to serve its purpose of investment?
If you were to do all the things you want and not listen to your partner or give your partner a chance to express another view, you would be living as if you were still single
he added Parliament will directly engage them on the drafting of amendments to laws that affect their operations in order to ensure that their concerns are fully addressed.
It's a difficult word to translate.
The Operation Halt II patrol that accompanies the team was ordered to destroy logistics chanced upon in these areas,” the statement added.
he added that is why anywhere we go, I don’t want to go with a helicopter.
The woman only became suspicious of Mr Anane when she visited his house in the capital, Nairobi, the police said.
All are equal before the law and are entitled without any discrimination to equal protection of the law.
He was addressing concerns raised by the Federation on some compelling issues affecting the growth of the private sector, including the laws relating to taxes.
WHAT IS HUMILITY?
The panel included Justice Jones Dotse, Justice Paul Baffoe-Bonnie, Justice Nene Amegatcher and Justice Sule Gbedegbe (retired)
The Ashanti regional capital, Kumasi which is one of the fastest-growing cities in Africa has not fully taken advantage of the e-commerce space as many residents still go through traffic as part of their busy schedules in order to purchase items.
Those exceptions must be entitled to address their grievance in the context of the state institutions of redress, especially the judicial process.
Even some parents may unwittingly sow the seeds of a me-first spirit.
Dormitory infrastructural constraints in the school disabled the school from admitting hundreds of first-year students who wanted to be boarders.
A total of 360,000 persons in 43 districts of the country, 25 in the Greater Accra Region, 16 in the Ashanti Region and two in the Central Region, have been targeted to receive their second doses in this new exercise.
If you was speaking less and listened more, you'd definitely be able to learn something.
I thought you didn't want to talk to us.
With the Ghana School of Law being the nation’s sole institution responsible for professional legal education, and for training eligible persons as lawyers and integrating them into the legal system, President Akufo-Addo expressed his delight about the project taking place under his Presidency.
However, the alleged seizing of gold is untrue.
he added small group discussions using English and local languages would be used to ensure that concepts, definitions and procedures for collecting data were well understood.
Some are in court and others are pending to be sent to court anytime soon” he added.
According to the headmistress, she acted in good faith to help the students especially the girls who were wandering in town in search of accommodation.
Does he drops his kids off at school on his way to work every day.
In principle we are not opposed to unitization, but this needs to follow an appropriate, shared work programme and evaluation process to assess the elements listed above before taking decisions in the interest of all parties.
Vice President Dr. Bawumia gave an insight into the Akufo-Addo government’s approach to national
development when he was speaking the chiefs and people of the Essikado Traditional Area in the Western
region at the climax of this year’s Kuntum Festival on Saturday 4th September, 2018.
Whereas disregard and contempt for human rights have resulted in barbarous acts which have outraged the conscience of mankind, and the advent of a world in which human beings shall enjoy freedom of speech and belief and freedom from fear and want has been proclaimed as the highest aspiration of the common people,
What did Naana Jane say?
The Ghana Armed Forces (GAF) has expressed concern about the high number of excavators parked in mining communities.
We deliberated whether we should cancel the reservation.
For instance, “You never listen” might really mean “I feel as if you don’t take my viewpoint seriously.
When is it a bad idea?’ ‘What’s an interest rate?’ ‘When have you bought something because someone else thought you should?’”
The Chief Director’s clarification was necessitated by reactions that followed Road Minister, Kwesi Amoako-Atta’s press briefing which focused on road projects being undertaken by the government.
I think her efforts to appear strong actually hinder her ability to make friends. The people she meets get the impression that she is cold, and for people who are not persistent, that is a deterrent
The woman, whose narration in the 2 minutes 5 seconds audio did not seem coherent, erroneously referred to Asante Bediatuo as the President’s was speakingsman.
Motherhood and childhood are entitled to special care and assistance. All children, whether born in or out of wedlock, shall enjoy the same social protection.
In our country, currently, the problems confronting our banking sector are dominating the headlines, as they should.
Rescue services have continued to comb through towns ravaged by the floods in search for potential survivors.
I went to college for four years and all I got was this lousy diploma.
Not only can the octopus bend its tentacles in any direction but it can also stiffen different sections of its arms as needed.
If you and your mate need to talk about something potentially divisive, raise the matter when both of you are calm and relaxed.
By the time Asamoah realized what was going on, the police had already picked up Abena.
View your income, not as your personal money, but as family money.
CEO of ZEEPAY, Andrew Takyi Appiah, on his part said the Central Bank should not relent on its efforts in enforcing its directives so as to bring sanity into the financial sector.
Mr. Mahama says even though he is disappointed by the verdict of the apex court on the Election Petition, he is “legally bound” to accept it.
In March, residents of Ho were also thrown into a state of shock after a lady believed to be in her mid-twenties was chanced upon dead in a hotel room.
You could take on extra shifts at your current job, perform seasonal work, tutor a student, recycle, or make your hobby into a home business.
Considering all I've eaten all day is just one slice of bread, I'm not really all that hungry.
Our nation has had a lot of difficulties with our politics and governance structures, but for the past 25 years we have had a stable political system. We have had regular elections and sitting governments have been defeated, and there have been peaceful transfers of power.
“We have decided that we are not going to allow what has happened to gold and manganese to happen with bauxite.
The timing for finding a viable solution is driven by the goodwill of the parties to share data and cooperate”,
In the Upper West Region, the Wa Municipality has the highest coverage of 71 % in terms of active members as at June 2018 whilst Wa East District has the lowest of 32%.
Exploring a foreign country is fun, but you also have to deal with the language barrier, choosing from a variety of ways to get around, making sure you have an international driving permit, and experiencing new foods and people, which will ultimately make you a tougher person in the long run.
I will definitely go to your funeral.
A total of 360,000 persons in 43 districts of the country, 25 in the Greater Accra Region, 16 in the Ashanti Region and two in the Central Region, have been targeted to receive their second doses in this new exercise.
Are there a lot of Moroccans in Germany?
The Vice Chancellor of the University for Development Studies (UDS), Prof Gabriel Ayum Teye says “the reports reaching his office indicate that some supervisors hardly give quality guidance to the students assigned to them and this does not help in the production of quality thesis.”
In a democracy, it is important that the press be independent.
Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic production of which he is the author.
The move, according to Citi News sources at the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources, is aimed at ensuring efficiency at the Commission.
Kwabena said that he thought Abena knew where John had chanced upon the key she'd lost.
Do you know a young person who is dealing with a serious health problem? Do you have an illness or disability that prevents you from enjoying the activities that others your age take part in?
Something that I really appreciate about my husband is that he always listens to me and acknowledges my concerns.
He stressed: “Today you see a deficit of 11%, you see debt to GDP ratio over 70%, you see revenues are falling, you see expenditure is challenged.
Regardless of the cause, hurtful speech can be a predictor of divorce as well as a number of health problems.
In a memo, it said the airline had already made its decision known without much explanation.
Also, in November 2019, an illegal small-scale mining pit in the outskirts of Kokofu collapsed and trapped eight persons between the ages of 24 and 35 years.
“Many young ones who date break up with each other a week or two later,” says a girl named Ama.
Members of the Chapter declared an indefinite strike that started on Thursday, 27th May 2021, following a one-week sit-down strike to protest the posting of two haematologists to the Laboratory Service Department of the hospital by management.
Asamoah decided to take matters into his own hands.
A man accused of trying to stab Mali's interim president, Assimi Goïta, last week has died in hospital while under guard, the government says.
Buy an item only if you need it, not just because it is on sale.
We listened to her for some time.
Marriage shall be entered into only with the free and full consent of the intending partners.
His assurance comes days after President Akuffo Addo swore in the Chairperson, Jean Adukwei Mensa and her two deputies and a corporate legal practitioner, Adwoa Asuama Abrefa who is a member of the Commission.
But government will revolve these challenges and will not back down on the policy. He called for support from the Public as the new policy is rolled out.
You probably know that an unbalanced diet can damage your health.
The command would like to inform the public through the media that all cases of crimes reported in the region are under investigation.
If she visits France again, she will have been there three times.
Mr. Bless told the Daily Graphic in an interview that the projects were meant to facilitate teaching and learning in the school.
Yeboah was subsequently picked up and arraigned.
Why are we just splitting heads because medical laboratory scientists believe the laboratory space is for them. It is not for them,” Mr. Akosa insisted.
Many young adults entering the workforce seem ill-prepared to cope with adversity.
After all, a very good marriage is the union of two good friends.
Deputy Chairman of the Electoral Commission, Dr. Eric Bossman Asare has assured Ghanaians that it will deliver very fair elections at all levels.
Also, I was shocked at how Toru would stretch the truth. I told him that one lie leads to another and that if he didn’t stop, our marriage could not continue.
Vice President of Self Love chanced uponation who is a midwife of the AGA Health chanced uponation, Sally Osei Tieku, bemoaned the increasing rate of stigmatization against girls during menstruation periods
The complaint has also featured prominently lately in the the reports of external examiners at the university
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance.
Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat for a white passenger.
Only persons who took their first COVID-19 jab between 1st and 9th March 2021, are eligible for the second jab currently being administered.
Shortly after they begun, we realized that the list had been replaced with another one that had other people.
Mr. Bless told the Daily Graphic in an interview that the projects were meant to facilitate teaching and learning in the school.
They have, however, not been able to execute the bail bond.
A similar incident occurred in October 2020 where five persons were reported dead after they were trapped in a mining pit in the same district.
ASP Larye said the suspect was sharing the same double-bed with the victim and that is how the man got the opportunity to take advantage of the young girl.
The Vice Chancellor of the University for Development Studies (UDS), Prof Gabriel Ayum Teye says “the reports reaching his office indicate that some supervisors hardly give quality guidance to the students assigned to them and this does not help in the production of quality thesis.”
The Court, presided over by Ms Rosemond Agyiri, adjourned the matter to July 1.
How? Together you might prepare a list of people in need of help with shopping, transportation, or repair work.
Around 6:30 in the evening, Kwesi would’ve finished his daily rounds/roaming and gotten back to where he sleeps
So when you take your gold out of the soil, if you take a 1000 tonnes, you will have to pay us our share out of that.
That’s what marriage should be about—give and take, not just take.
The prosecutor said the father questioned her about why she was crying, and she disclosed that Yeboah called her to come for money to buy biscuits, revealing that “when she followed him to his room, Yeboah put her on his bed and inserted his penis into her vagina”.
Obuasi-based All Feminine NGO, Self-Love chanced uponation, is backing ongoing calls for the government to scrap taxes on imported sanitary pads.
According to Kwesi Amoako-Attah, the Hamile road was in such a terrible state that travelling on it with the President was near impossibility.
Everyone has the right of equal access to public service in his country.
Cory doesn't think Abena should drive home since she's been drinking.
Speaking at this year's Asafotufiami of the people of Ada, president Akufo-Addo said, the new system will rather reduce class size, increase teaching hours and number of holidays among others.
“The law says a foreigner cannot do retail except Ghanaians but the foreigners are doing retail in our markets and so we will close their shops.
I had extremes of very-high-calorie binge days and very-low-calorie strict days. Finally, I decided to stop counting calories, to be careful not to overeat, and to stop eating when I was full. It took time, but now I have a balanced diet.”
That type of silence can be beneficial.
Finally, if you cannot meet your obligations, try to negotiate new payment plans with your creditors.
The President of the Republic said I felt like weeping.
These might include not eating enough, continious eating, or denying yourself an occasional treat
Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal, in the determination of his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him.
The census was originally scheduled for 2020, but will now take place from the 27th of June 2021.
Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay.
Several officers at the Minerals Commission of Ghana have been transferred or reassigned to various regional and district offices across the country.
The public is entitled to information about how public money is spent.
We had less snow this winter than we had expected.
According to the Chief of Defence Staff, Vice Admiral Seth Amoama, over seven hundred excavators believed to have been moved from mining sites are likely to be taken back to mining sites.
Brazil is surrounded by ten countries and the great Atlantic Ocean.
Several times a day, you send text messages or talk to this person on the phone. Are you dating?
“Once completed, the Law Village will boast of an additional seating capacity of one thousand five hundred (1,500) seats, a number of lecture halls, a well-resourced library, residential facilities, offices, amongst others,” he added.
They are all acting on the strengths that their government is in power,” he stated.
They talk a lot, particularly at mealtimes. And when my husband cooks, he uses the same cloth to dry the dishes and to clean his hands!
Finally, scar tissue remodels and strengthens the damaged area
“He has no issue with anybody in this house.
It has to do with judicial corruption, which, a priori, constitutes a violation of the judicial oath.
The Ghana Statistical Service says it is collaborating with the Ghana Health Service to vaccinate about 85,000 field officials who will be involved in the 2021 Population and Housing Census, before the start of the exercise.
Having benefited from such a facility, the present initiative serves as a kind gesture of gratitude from Ghanaians towards India.
Unknown gunmen have killed to death, a headteacher in his home at Cape Coast in the Central Region.
When you talk to others about your mate, share “whatever saying is good for building up as the need may be, that it may impart what is favorable to the hearers.”
Kwabena chanced upon some skeletons in the cupboard when he was researching his family history.
What do you recommend?
The next time you are offended by something that your partner said or did, ask yourself: ‘Is the situation really that important? Do I need to demand an apology, or can I just overlook what happened and move on?’​
You help your daughter to view a setback as just that, and not as a terrible disaster.
The river is polluted by waste from houses and factories.
The Department of Health said details on more partnerships would be released "in due course".
He likes to read newspapers.
The National Labor Commission (NLC), is expected to meet the management of the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital (KATH), the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GALMS), and the Health Ministry next week.
Mr Siaw also acknowledged the staff of the GhLA for their commitment and dedication in connecting Ghanaians to knowledge resources.
Mr. Mahama urged his many supporters not to give up on their dreams for the party to come to power.
He called for support from the Public as the new policy is rolled out.
The Minerals Commission has begun investigations into the mining accident that occurred on Wednesday, May 26, 2021, at Denkyira Breman/Brofoyedu in the Upper Denkyira West District of the Central Region.
He, thus, charged the nominees to respect the provisions of the Constitution regarding their nomination and subsequent approval or rejection by the House.
This involves the use of the military to destroy all mining equipment at illegal mining sites and also apprehend illegal miners.
On Monday, India became the third country to top 300,000 deaths from the virus, after Brazil and the United States. India has reported a total of 26,948,874 Covid-19 cases, including 307,231 deaths.
I'll see to it that you get a raise after the first year.
Another woman at the Adabraka Polyclinic said, “I fall in the category. I was called on phone. Since we got here, nobody has been attended to. Nobody is talking to us. They should have told us that when we get here, we need to go for re-registration. They should have done that.”
“Nana is indeed a true chip off the old block” Dr Bawumia declared, and called for the sustenance of the
peace and unity enjoyed by the people of Essikado and the nation as a whole.
he added the application of larvicide was done at various mosquito breeding sites that could be dredged.
Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each state.
Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status.
Ghana’s population has since moved from 6.7 million in 1960 to 24.6 million in 2010, and currently estimated at 30 million.
Kwasi couldn't find Abena even though he said he looked just about everywhere.
She further advised movie producers to copyright their works at National Film Authority to avoid infringements that will go a long way to affect them.
“I, thus, consider it necessary to put out this statement because the allegations made in the audio recording have no iota of truth, are pure fabrications, and are malicious, with the sole aim of courting public disaffection for me as a senior official of this government.”
He added that is an initiative that helps cultivate young talents, ensuring that the tech-savvy and change-resilient young people have the skills and mindsets needed to be competitive in the workplaces of the future.
The Zoomlion General Manager for Ashanti East, Franklin Ofori Akuffo, indicated that LSM was one of the best interventions in the control of malaria.
Berekum Chelsea were victorious against Bofoakwa Tano FC, beating them 2-1.
She claimed, the feeding fees collected from the students were given to the matron of the school to buy food items to cook for the students in her private hostel.
After one year of the launch of the project, what are the authorities waiting to be fixed in order to make the ICT System fully operational?
You expect some tumbles as you gain confidence as a cyclist.
You saved us all.
The chief enumerated a number of infrastructure projects the MP carried out in the area, including rural electrification, mechanized boreholes, CHPS compounds, school buildings, and a communication tower.
Work is expected to be completed in 10 months.
Only one UN food convoy has successfully reached Mekelle this month
Some people collect friends the way others collect figurines. But having a roomful of collectibles never made anyone feel loved.
I didn't believe him at first.
An oxygen concentrator is a device that concentrates the oxygen from a gas supply by selectively removing nitrogen to supply an oxygen-enriched gas stream.
The UN calculates at least 60 trucks need to be arriving in Tigray every day, in order to fully meet the requirements of those people caught up in the crisis.
I think it's time for me to buy my daughter a decent computer.
If you want to see the efficiency of a Ghanaian contractor, payment has to be made.
Kwabena advised us to leave early and avoid the morning traffic.
Speaking at the signing ceremony, President Akufo-Addo took notice that “the Development Bank Ghana is going to play a very important part in the rapid economic transformation of Ghana, following the onset of COVID-19.”
Kwabena put the new tablecloth he had just bought on the table.
Before, when I planted cassava, I could only get a few small cassava roots
We [Minority] are following the case closely and nobody should make an attempt to cover-up what his doings have been in relating to his engagement or involvement in galamsey.
As for her changes of mood, those baffle me! And another thing​—when I cook, she becomes so critical, especially of the way I clean my hands on the dishcloth.
The five food groups include dairy products, proteins, fruits, vegetables, and grains.
More than a dozen cities in Henan province, including its provincial capital Zhengzhou, are affected.
Meanwhile, residents who live in Buokrom Estate say the level of insecurity in the area is worrying.
He then charged the police to hunt down the perpetrators and bring them to book.
Also, in November 2020, an illegal small-scale mining pit in the outskirts of Ayanfuri collapsed and trapped eight persons between the ages of 24 and 35 years.
Jones doesn't think that Abena did all her homework by herself.
My driving instructor says I should be more patient.
The authorities also recovered fake currency and materials used to print fake money.
We see this Bank (DBG) as one that will play a pivotal role in this”.
He responds by calling her oversensitive.
I had extremes of very-high-calorie binge days and very-low-calorie strict days. Finally, I decided to stop counting calories, to be careful not to overeat, and to stop eating when I was full. It took time, but now I have a balanced diet.”
“So if you go out there to mine, I cannot guarantee your safety when the soldiers are going to apprehend you. So I will advise you to not go out. It is not worth it.”
Kwabena left Abena alone.
Discuss with him what he can do to help them. Commend and support your child as he serves others.
Under her watch as the Minister of Education in 2015, 23.9% of the students obtained Al to C6 in Maths.
I think our clients have realized that over the last few years, in terms of technology, GCB Bank is transforming in getting into the digital space. GCB is moving from the traditional bank into a more contemporary.”
he added elections will be conducted in such a way that what people will choose will at the end of the day become those who will lead the country at the district, parliamentary and Presidential levels.
I was a member of the soccer club when I was in junior high.
“It shows the deep roots of friendship that exists between the two communities since independence,” he added.
or example, a husband might write, “You spent the whole day with your friends and didn’t call me to tell me where you were.
Kwabena and his wife wanted to have a child before they were too old.
Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal, in the determination of his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him.
EACH day presents people with numerous opportunities to do kind things for others.
He's very studious.
Were you playing tennis yesterday morning?
First, determine for each debt the interest rate, the fees, the impact of a late or missed payment, and the possibility that a payment is already overdue
And you never know how or when your words may be repeated.
Likewise, you should expect to make some embarrassing mistakes as you gain experience in marriage.
How did one make it to age twenty-three without knowing that?”
You can get discouraged when you see others who seem to eat whatever they want yet suffer no ill effects. Don’t compare yourself to them. Find out what works for you and focus on that.
I wasn't conscious of anyone watching me.
“The Ministry of Health was handling it earlier, so we were expecting that it would be solved by now, but as it stands, there is a need for us to step in.
So far as the laboratory space has different professionals, the headship can be based on competence, so we cannot sit here and say that the laboratory should be for laboratory scientists alone.
I was so sick and tired of being mistreated by my peers that I began to bully others just to fit in
If you look beyond our numbers, if you look at the performance of 2020 and you look beyond the financials, you will see the contribution we have made to this nation through socio economic development- and we see ourselves as a catalyst to that.”
How long have you been learning English?
Kids who bully have an air of superiority that is often a mask to cover up deep hurt and a feeling of inadequacy
The possibility that the explosion was caused by carelessness cannot be ruled out.
He stressed that the Development Bank Ghana will be a central player for Ghana’s economic recovery and structural transformation, “especially given the importance of counter-cyclical support in stimulating private enterprise.”
He expects everyone to treat him as special.
When a road that was built barely a year ago develops potholes, someone or some people have been breaking the law or cutting corners.
An unknown woman in an audio circulating on social media claims to have picked some information that the President had plans to sell the Art Centre.
Asamoah wasn't excited.
For example, some partners divorce simply because one partner feels that he or she “deserves better.
Maintain a sense of humor. Take your mate’s concerns seriously, but learn to laugh at your own blunders.
The bank’s strategy going forward hinges on three pillars.
A respectful person values others and seeks to understand their feelings.
He reiterated his outfit’s commitment to supporting the government in its efforts to improve the lot of the citizenry.
It was part of the government’s plan to boost the military’s efficiency in combating a more than decade-long jihadist insurgency.
The National Labour Commission hereby directs that with this intervention and in pursuance of section 161 of the Labour Act 2003 (Act 651), the Union should call off the ongoing strike and/or any further intended action immediately for the parties to appear before the Commission as scheduled,” the Commission had said in a statement.
Now ask one of your parents the same question
It is not possible.
Instead, pinpoint where they agree. To help you find common ground, try this
When you travel, you have plenty of time to think about whether or not you’re truly excited with your life.
“It shows the deep roots of friendship that exists between the two communities since independence,” he added.
Mr Amoako-Attah said that government has never and cannot promise to fix all of Ghana’s roads within a four-year period.
Dr. Samuel Thomas, an India physician, from a community hospital of Tamil Nadu State, expressed his gratitude to Ghanaians for the timely donation, which according to him, would go a long way in treating critically ill patients.
“For example, you may have a very big water body like a lake that we can't readily drain or even a marshy area that serves as a source or breeding site for mosquitoes,” he added.
She did it against her will.
When she finds out, she is angry and calls him inconsiderate.
As professionals, we will behave accordingly and ensure that the best comes out of the children that we teach because we are professionals,” he added on Tuesday.
There will be innocent victims. Those exceptions must be entitled to address their grievance in the context of the state institutions of redress, especially the judicial process. But the likelihood of innocent victims ought not to stop the state from exerting its authority in the interest of preserving our common heritage, be it in the cleaning of Accra or battling galamsey.
The Hon. Greater Accra Regional Minister, embarks on a major clean up in response to our own complaints about a clean Accra and immediately, his methods, some of which are necessary, are questioned when the affected people are mostly breaking the law and rules with impunity.
Sometimes I say something to my husband and it doesn’t come out as I intended. Or I am convinced that I told him something, when I really only dreamed that I told him. That’s actually happened!
Rasoarimanana has also become an appreciated chef in the family, especially for her delicious vegetable recipes.
The donation will be shared among 30 health facilities in rural areas across 14 different states/regions.
If you draw a bucket out of a well too quickly, you will lose a lot of water. Similarly, if you confront your mate too forcefully, your mate may become defensive and the opportunity to draw him or her out may be lost.
“In fact, this particular programme would help in tackling mosquitoes from the larvae stage,” he added.
As a matter of fact, if the policy rate can go down even further it will be great.
He took notice that, during the different phases of ‘Operation Halt’, some miners were chanced upon to be carrying out their activities at night.
We also tend to remember the good parts of our travels and forget the stressful parts in the long term, so travel makes us feel warm and fuzzy inside.
He promised to visit the ancient town as soon as possible to strengthen the relationship.
Everyone has the right to an effective remedy by the competent national tribunals for acts violating the fundamental rights granted him by the constitution or by law.
The deceased’s father reported to police that a day before his daughter’s demise, she complained to him that she was severely assaulted by her husband, and that had led to the death of her daughter.
Some might even view such a friend as little more than a trophy or an accessory to be seen with in public to boost their own self-esteem.
“Various caucuses have taken entrenched positions so people want to make sense, people are speaking logic, people are quoting protocols that exist that is binding, and yet nobody listens.
He has resolutely tackled political violence, taking the unprecedented steps of not only setting up a Commission after the Ayawaso West Wuogon election, but also encouraging the two major parties to dialogue face to face and then passing anti-violence legislation the success of which was more than evident in the 2020 Elections. Indeed, his tolerance for political debate was on show in the nearly two years of NDC protests against the EC and then he quietly set a great record by supporting the entire election budget from Government resources.
Prior to the second wave of COVID-19, Ghana had become one of the first recipients of the Indian manufactured COVID-19 vaccines under WHO’s Covax program.
A wife might write, “I felt that you were treating me as if I were a child who had to check in with her father.”
We go to school because we want to learn.
Travel can strengthen your physical relationships
Interpreting this as criticism, you say: “It’s not my fault! I have to work extra hours because you are running up our bills.
President Akufo-Addo, in response to the complaints, has asked those persons to go to court.
In Belgium, 24 were confirmed dead.
But that approach can deprive your body of the very nutrients it needs.
Commenting on the chaos created on the floor of the House, Frank Annoh-Dompreh said the behaviour of his colleagues was unbecoming of them and called for reasoning to prevail.
She added, “The way the courses are designed and instructed is very practical, and i realize it engages the students in a lot of hands-on training, something most students at the University have given positive feedback on”.
Rather than think of that as a drawback, consider the advantage.
I assure all of you that this project is the startning of greater things to come for the Ghana School of Law.
According to him, the lack of responsiveness of banks, when it comes to reacting to changes in the policy rate, leaves much to be wished for
How? By indulging their child’s every whim, while hesitating to administer any kind of discipline.
More than a dozen cities in Henan province, including its provincial capital Zhengzhou, are affected.
I am surprised to find that my wife and I are so different! For example, I like to get up early, but she likes to stay up late.
She was advised by him to come back at once.
The facility, which provides sitting space for 150 people also has restrooms and a place for banking services
Teach your children to say “thank you,” not just with words but with genuine appreciation.
It's no use confessing your sins to the priest if you don't think twice before repeating them.
She says: “Thinking back two years ago, what I would have looked for in a potential mate was so different from what I would look for now.
However, he says he has was speakingn to Conte's replacement, Maurizio Sarri, and reassured him he wants to be part of his plans this season.
Kwabena was picked up on suspicion of drunken driving.
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.
He reiterated his outfit’s commitment to supporting the government in its efforts to improve the lot of the citizenry.
Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person.
Men and women of full age, without any limitation due to race, nationality or religion, have the right to marry and to chanced upon a family. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during marriage and at its dissolution.
Pope Francis is seen after being discharged from Rome's Gemelli University Hospital.
A trade delegation has gone to Japan ahead of the Prime Minister to crunch the numbers with their Japanese counterparts.
The Chief Director of the Ministry, Dr Akoto in a statement on Wednesday, June 2 stated that the incumbent government will not expend such a far-fetched amount on just one kilometer of road when it seeks to complete 6000 km by 2024.
The Chief of Tinjase, Ubor Mamunin II, lauded Mr. Bless for initiating the school projects.
Mr. Bediatuo has rejected outrightly all the claims by the unidentified woman.
The new debt figure brings Ghana’s debt to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) ratio to 70.2% as of the end of March 2021.
You expect some tumbles as you gain confidence as a cyclist.
Mr. Amar Deep S. Hari, the Chief Executive Officer of IPMC, who commissioned the items, on a virtual platform for distribution from India’s famous mosque, Dargah Nizamuddin in New Delhi, India, expressed his gratitude to Ghanaians for this assistance.
The incident happened as the plane was trying to land in bad weather, the military said.
At the event, she lauded movie directors who strive through the odds to shoot movies.
When the President launched the ambulances last year, there were about 307 of them, and we were mandated, as District Chief Executives, to find places for them
Despite existing infrastructural deficit, government has made it a point to allow all qualified students to make it to Senior High school.
The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection by society and the State.
However, marriage will test those skills in new ways and will likely require that you gain new ones. Will you make mistakes? Certainly. Can you gain the skills you need? Absolutely!
We often hear it said that the Japanese are good workers.
All are entitled to equal protection against any discrimination in violation of this Declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination.
Your adolescent whines, “You’re treating me like a child!” Before replying, “Well, you’re acting like one,
he added: “The foreigners have taken over our market that is why GUTA is complaining, they have taken over all across the country but as it is now, Kasoa is the strongest area for these foreigners.
According to the Police, the suspects were allegedly planning to clash with an opposing faction in a chieftaincy dispute in the village of Bagliga Dakpem-Yili.
And I think that the investment the bank has made over the last couple of years has been worthy.
Additionally, he expressed appreciation to the MP for understanding a number of infrastructure projects in the town.
A total of 360,000 persons in 43 districts of the country, 25 in the Greater Accra Region, 16 in the Ashanti Region and two in the Central Region, have been targeted to receive their second doses in this new exercise.
Exploring a foreign country is fun, but you also have to deal with the language barrier, choosing from a variety of ways to get around, making sure you have an international driving permit, and experiencing new foods and people, which will ultimately make you a tougher person in the long run.
What is the reason for your being late to work?
It has to do with sharp practice and unethical behaviour by some lawyers, which jeopardise the administration of justice and the interests of ordinary people.
He promised to visit the ancient town as soon as possible to strengthen the relationship.
Many unreliable and ungrounded data are circulating, which risk confusing the public.
You will have to pay us something commensurate to what you have taken out.”
“As many more lawyers are trained, it is my hope that, indeed, many more of them will join the public sector to enhance the quality of legal service delivery in the sector. I assure all of you that this project is the beginning of greater things to come for the Ghana School of Law. Government’s commitment to leaving a lasting legacy in professional legal education in Ghana is absolute,” he added.
He added that is an initiative that helps cultivate young talents, ensuring that the tech-savvy and change-resilient young people have the skills and mindsets needed to be competitive in the workplaces of the future.
Everyone charged with a penal offence has the right to be presumed innocent until proved guilty according to law in a public trial at which he has had all the guarantees necessary for his defence.
The Ghana National Association of Teachers (GNAT) has urged its members at Achimota School to obey the court ruling regarding the admission of the Rastafarian students.
Carbohydrates can give you energy.
Today, with the right techniques, one root alone is enough to feed the family.
Asamoah felt the urge to run away.
“So if you go out there to mine, I cannot guarantee your safety when the soldiers are going to approach you there.
Prepare your child for life’s realities.
She had borrowed the money to pay for her children’s medical treatment
he added, “if we don’t make reasoning prevail in this issue, we will not have a justification for our trip paid by our member countries to come here and engage with these exchanges, it will not help us.
He makes a bad impression.
Earlier this year, UT Bank and Capital Bank also faced the same liquidation problem.
The census was originally scheduled for 2020, but will now take place from the 27th of June 2021.
Now that the government has joined the cashless society, there will be a lot more of this and fewer situations that one may need cash”,
The Union has also urged the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources, and by extension the Minerals Commission and its Inspectorate Division, to as a matter of urgency conduct a thorough investigation into the recent underground accident that saw three of its valued members working in the same area trapped, out of which two managed to escape and one still missing since Tuesday May 18, 2021.
Lastly the Match review panel exonerated the match officials from taking any wrongful decisions in the WPL game between Hasaacas and Soccer Intellectuals.
They also need to care about other people’s needs.
He has quickly accepted the verdict of Ghana to work together and is doing so.
Commenting on the chaos created on the floor of the House, Frank Annoh-Dompreh said the behaviour of his colleagues was unbecoming of them and called for reasoning.
Mr Polley said each trainee had been given a hard copy of the Field Officer’s Manual, questionnaire and tablet among other things for the training.
So the reason we are borrowing 60 billion, 70 billion, and 280 billion; is not because Ghana needs it, but because some people need the money.
The process begins as soon as an injury occurs.
Carbohydrates can give you energy.
As a judicial officer of well over forty years standing, H.E the President is keenly aware of our capacities and what must be done to bring us up to speed.
Your partner says or does something that angers you, and you try to bottle up your anger.
GTC’s partnership with GIZ is to provide a huge opportunity for the country to leap frog in the provision of efficient public services such as health, education, revenue generation, creation of new jobs for the growing unemployed youth, protection of human rights and freedoms.
The chief of Yendi has visited the town of Buipe to development projects
The wife storms off and stews in silence.
Toru and Akiko were in love when they were first married. But only eight months later, this Japanese couple decided to divorce. They relate what happened.
“The next line of action is for us to meet with the National Executive Council to discuss the way forward.
It said the accused persons armed their employees with guns to protect their unlawful activities.
I have just one ambulance.
This entails an appraisal programme of the Afina area including (but not limited to) production and interference tests in order to understand the potential benefit that a unitization of the Sankofa field and the Afina discovery could deliver.”
Two pads may be used for a flow.
There’s no lender who’ll give you money for consumption so if we don’t see infrastructure to go with the monies borrowed, then it’s been used for something else.” His comments come after the Information Minister, Kojo Oppong Nkrumah said the Akufo-Addo government had to embark on extra borrowing in order to get the Ghanaian economy functioning despite the harsh impact of COVID-19.
Make your own meals instead of relying on whatever is available when you are outside the home.
A beautiful woman was seated one row in front of me.
Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status.
With more complex issues, however, a husband and wife can strengthen their bond by brainstorming a solution that perhaps neither of them would have come up with alone.
The District Chief Executive (DCE) FOR Ada West, Adzoteye Lawyer Akrofi, has denied ownership of the ambulance that was seen in a video, which has been widely shared on social media, being loaded with bags of cement.
Despite existing infrastructural deficit, government has made it a point to allow all qualified students to make it to Senior High school.
My wife made me a delicious apple cake.
I assure all of you that this project is the beginning of greater things to come for the Ghana School of Law.
You're aiming too low to hit the target.
Unconfirmed the reports suggest that many of the victims are not residents of the community as none of the residents could identify any of the deceased.
The President continued, “with the 2021/2022 academic year fast approaching, the school is, again, faced with limited and overstretched facilities, hence the added importance of this project”.
WHY IS HUMILITY IMPORTANT?
“Iam very surprised, the Board cannot take that unilateral position to go back to court", Dr. Adutwum said on Metro Tv's Good Evening Ghana.
In an interview with Starr News, Chief Revenue Officer of the Debt Management Unit of the GRA Nathaniel Nii Okai Tetteh said companies who are still facing regulatory sanctions have been given a window to redeem themselves.
It is far better when both partners have a self-sacrificing disposition.
Then, he’ll patiently take off the dresses one after the other and heap them on the floor till none is left on him
I did not have to sacrifice my family just to pursue a career.
I still don't understand what you want from me.
You’re online, looking at photos of a recent party.
Another resident said armed robbers have been breaking into the containers here.”
She further indicated that the contribution of the Information and Communications Technology sector to Ghana’s GDP was estimated to be 9.8% in 2019
As professionals, we will behave accordingly and ensure that the best comes out of the children that we teach because we are professionals,” he added on Tuesday.
he added, “the security men were deployed by the Company to protect the site so people don’t come around to steal but they were beaten by the military with the butt of the rifles”.
They would also be taught how to enumerate a household population, institutional population and floating population using the CAPI system.
When your son was younger, he was like a boat tied to a dock​—you. Now as a teenager, he is tugging at the rope, eager to set sail, and you get the impression that you are not invited on board.
You may also find yourself bonding with your significant other more than usual and connecting with them on a much deeper level.
I don't feel well today so put down your pencil.
he added that is why anywhere we go, I don’t want to go with a helicopter.
He, thus, commended the organizers for putting together the training programme, pointing out that “we need to equip field workers so that they can do their work well.”
Meanwhile, the police is picking some reliable leads that will help apprehend the perpetrators of this heinous crime.
He didn’t seem to understand that all jobs have some boring elements.
Instead, ask questions gently and respectfully, and be patient if your mate does not articulate feelings as quickly as you would like.
Also, in November 2020, an illegal small-scale mining pit in the outskirts of Ayanfuri collapsed and trapped eight persons between the ages of 24 and 35 years.
State capacity, reflected in its footprint in terms of mining regulations management and enforcement, reach of courts, policing, advocacy and self-restraint through representative associations, have fallen short of curbing the menace.
Travel can strengthen your relationships
The GNAT General Secretary further advised all stakeholders to carefully peruse the full details of the court ruling to appreciate the ramification on the broader education sector.
Perhaps they simply enjoy being with a special friend of the opposite sex, without any intention of marriage.
Children who work through their problems build resilience and self-confidence—assets they might lack if someone was constantly rescuing them.
I returned the books I borrowed from the library, and I borrowed some new ones.
ARE you raising an adolescent? If so, you are witnessing one of the most fascinating stages of your child’s growth.
But I don’t like the idea of compromise,’ you might say. ‘It sounds as if neither of us will get what we want!
He drives a pink Cadillac.
Because of being taught to focus on their own desires, they find it hard as adults to form lasting relationships.
“What they did not know is that we are not touching the licenses. It is the illegalities we are touching.
Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status.
The 2021 Population and Housing Census (PHC), with the slogan, ‘You Count, Get Counted’, will provide the opportunity for the country to gather credible and comprehensive data on the citizenry towards transforming the economy for sustainable development.
I didn't believe him at first.
The Headmistress also said the students bed were the excess beds which were packed under the mercy of the weather.
She did her best to help him.
President Akufo-Addo, in response to the complaints, has asked those persons to go to court.
The President was expectant that the completion of the Law Village will expand access to legal education, without compromising on its quality, and, ultimately, assist in the administration of justice throughout the country.
And that is why it is necessary to burn stray equipment once and for all to deter repetitive destructive behaviour.
The Appointments Committee has, consequently, invited Memoranda on the nominees from the public
for consideration.
Dr. Kumah made the statement while speaking to journalists at the end of a one-day PEG training session held for health workers in Takoradi in the Western Region, on Friday, May 21, 2021.
She is also heard saying she proceeded to meet with Kofi Eshun in the company of some chiefs in a bid to have the plans changed, but Kofi Eshun disrespected them.
The Democrats haven't decided on their candidates yet, but in any case they're sure to lose.
As a medical doctor, I am not an allied health professional so under no circumstance can that regulatory agency regulate my practice.
The Speaker gave the assurance at a meeting with the Private Enterprises Federation (PEF) in Parliament on Tuesday.
His political equanimity is evident in his relations with the current Parliament, especially Rt. Hon Speaker.
nstead of blaming each other, work as a team to bring spending under control. Decide at the outset that you will not allow this issue to drive a wedge between you.
Having benefited from such a facility, the present initiative serves as a kind gesture of gratitude from Ghanaians towards India.
So be sure your intentions are honorable
They say you shouldn't take rumors seriously, but that's easier said than done.
Since we got here, nobody has been attended to. Nobody is talking to us.
James is having a hard time deciding what to wear to the party.
Still, adolescence is a vital phase of growth. In what way?
Mr Polley said the training would adopt a participant-centred approach, which involved lectures, video presentations, face-to-face interactions, mock interviews, assessment and field practice.
On the other hand, if you give a former spouse too much influence in your household, you can frustrate or even anger your new mate.
Perhaps they simply enjoy being with a special friend of the opposite sex, without any intention of marriage.
Mr. Bless told the Daily Graphic in an interview that the projects were meant to facilitate teaching and learning in the school.
This incident comes at a time when government has renewed the combat against all forms of illegal small-scale mining in the country.
Due to this, some teachers in the school as well as the headmistress have rented private apartments and converted them into private hostels to accommodate the students.
The two parties met on Wednesday at the La Palm Royal Beach Hotel to sign the MoU to expedite Ghana’s digital transformation drive.
The Chief Director’s clarification was necessitated by reactions that followed Road Minister, Kwesi Amoako-Atta’s press briefing which focused on road projects being undertaken by the government.
Men tend to think in terms of solutions. That is understandable because fixing things makes a man feel useful.
In Africa as a whole, Ghana is largely considered the leader in the digital transformation agenda.
The MP cut the sod last Saturday, May 23, for work to begin on the GH¢800,000 projects.
How, then, can you bridge these differences and communicate with your husband or wife? By treating your mate with respect.
“The Allied Health Professional Council regulates Allied Health Professionals, and the list is clearly stated in the schedule of Act 857 and it lists those who are allied health professionals – you must be a lab technician, you must be a medical laboratory technologist or a medical laboratory scientist.
The Ellembelle District Census Officer, Mr Isaac Polley, has expressed worry over how a section of the public was “playing politics” with the census exercise and called for a stop to the practice.
“We have decided that we are not going to allow what has happened to gold and manganese to happen with bauxite.
“Once completed, the Law Village will boast of an additional seating capacity of one thousand five hundred (1,500) seats, a number of lecture halls, a well-resourced library, residential facilities, offices, amongst others,” he added.
Kwabena leaned over to put on his shoes.
And the more you practice apologizing, the easier it will become for you
If so, compromise should not be too difficult.
He indicated.Industry players have predicted that Ghana could move at a faster rate if it boosts the use of digital payment systems.
They could even become easy targets for manipulators, thinking that such relationships are normal and that they shouldn’t expect anything better.
Point out how chores benefit others and how others will appreciate and respect him for doing them.
Then his achievements will become a source of satisfaction both to him and to you also.​
As professionals, we will behave accordingly and ensure that the best comes out of the children that we teach because we are professionals,” he added on Tuesday.
He further said Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) should be harnessed and supported to graduate into large corporates, whilst the large corporates should dominate the West African market and ultimately Africa.
Be honest and courteous in explaining your financial situation.
Toru and Akiko were in love when they were first married. But only eight months later, this Japanese couple decided to divorce. They relate what happened.
He took notice efforts at addressing the crime situation in the area have been unsuccessful.
She added “this is where Self Love chanced uponation comes in.
This intervention, he further took notice, will help decrease the number of malaria cases, “we see at a particular time or in a month.”
We think it is a matter that needs to be taken up at the national level.
ASP Larye said the suspect was sharing the same double-bed with the victim and that is how the man got the opportunity to take advantage of the young girl.
Visiting new places can be very exciting, but it can also be a bit intimidating, which takes you out of your comfort zone and forces you to try new things.
Loneliness is like quicksand. The more you wallow in it, the harder it is to get out of it. If you let it consume your thinking, soon you’ll have a full-fledged pity party that no one else wants to go to.
Asamoah is still in love with Abena.
Mine was delivered on June 18, 2020”
If so, compromise should not be too difficult to you.
“In fact, this particular programme would help so much in tackling mosquitoes from the larvae stage,” he added.
My house is on the outskirts of town.
If he handles it responsibly, in time he can be granted more. If he does not do so, the freedoms he has been granted will be curtailed.​
Speaking on the Morning Starr on Monday, May 10, Dr Mensah said the government must also restructure its policies and put in place policies that will engage the private sector to help revive the economy. “The economy has been hanging, and it’s been hanging for the past four years. And it has to do at the macro level.
he added elections will be conducted in such a way that what people will choose will at the end of the day become those who will lead the country at the district, parliamentary and Presidential levels.
Hematologists are doctors who have trained in blood diseases.
A man accused of trying to stab Mali's interim president, Assimi Goïta, last week has died in hospital while under guard, the government says.
She asked him to not quit his job because they were poor and needed the money.
For project supervision, the Ministry also engages the services of Consultants,” he added.
The military also assaulted security men on duty.
Reacting to that, Dominic Nitiwul took notice that these military officials are fully briefed and complying with the rules of engagement laid down by the incumbent government, thus, any item confiscated or destroyed is recorded and made known to the general public.
He warned that government against any move to cover up his arrest.
MASLOC still resorts to the old system of applications coupled with a direct human interface in dealing with applicants and loan beneficiaries.
When it comes to dancing, nobody can move like Michael Jackson.
Don't be stupid.
Eni is trying to find out if there is a viable solution that could be beneficial to all parties involved.
She added “this is where Self Love chanced uponation comes in.
Follow these steps the next time you meet your mate’s former spouse or the spouse of your former mate
However, marriage will test those skills in new ways and will likely require that you gain new ones. Will you make mistakes? Certainly. Can you gain the skills you need? Absolutely!
Mr. Mahama’s appointment as the AU envoy was welcomed by the Council of Presidential Candidates of Somalia, and the Coalition of Somalia’s Federal Member States.
He went to London a month ago.
The demographics here too is also great.
When the President launched the ambulances In the previous year, there were about 307 of them, and we were mandated, as District Chief Executives, to find places for them
More than 160 people are dead, and hundreds more remain missing after catastrophic flooding hit large parts of Western Europe. A desperate search for survivors continues despite great obstacles and difficulties.
A delicate chip by Barnieh sent Samuel Boadu’s men three up as they picked up a comfortable victory.
Our nation has had a lot of difficulties with our politics and governance structures, but for the past 25 years we have had a stable political system.
Encourage your child to apologize quickly.
Naana pleaded guilty to drunken driving and his driver's license was suspended for six months.
Dating should have an honorable purpose—to help a young man and woman determine if they want to get married to each other.
If you cannot adjust the activity, get permission from the other parent before telling the children what you have planned.
The government recently renewed its commitment to ending the ‘galamsey’ menace with some enhanced measures, including the burning of excavators and other mining equipment by the members of the ‘Operation Halt’ taskforce
The success of your future relationships will depend largly on your ability to communicate and negotiate, and there’s no better place to cultivate such skills than within your family.
Rather than taking note of ways in which you feel your partner ought to change, keep a changes-I-need-to-make list.
Children must never be made to feel bad about themselves—or so parents were told.
I began this address by indicating that I wanted us to be frank in our discussions about ourselves and about our conduct in the practice of our profession.
Furthermore, it said “Ghana as a prominent hub of mining in Africa has not fared badly in regulating the formal subsector of its industry but in recent times, a notorious trend of mine accidents and incidents with its consequential fatalities happening in some of the underground operations, particularly AngloGold Ashanti, Obuasi Mine, and its surrogate Underground Mining Alliance that has claimed three precious lives since June 2020, are becoming a blot on the enviable record chalked up by Ghana, especially after the structural adjustment programme in the 80s”.
Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution.
I think I still have time for another cup of coffee.
For example, BBC News reported that a wife in southeastern India committed suicide after falling behind on payments for loans totaling the equivalent of $840 (U.S.)
he added upon a tip-off, the Police picked up Rita on September 9, 2020, at about 1600 hours with three buckets of the Indian hemp soaked in liquid, popularly known as “lacka” as well as quantity of the dried leaves.
Witnesses say, Sampson Ataafi, upon realizing that his girlfriend was in the new boyfriend’s room, opened fire on the lady through a trap door. After firing the gun, with the aim of killing the lady, Sampson killed himself and died in the process, thinking the lady had been killed.
In a similar way, people who are starved for friends could look for friendship in all the wrong places
Justice Gifty Agyei Addo, the Presiding Judge, disagreed with the submissions of the Attorney General and granted all the reliefs seperately sought by the embattled students except the relief of compensation in the case of Tyrone Marhguy.
He was addressing concerns raised by the Federation on some compelling issues affecting the growth of the private sector, including laws relating to taxes.
And in a world on a mission to build self-esteem, that was considered the epitome of irresponsible parenting.
“We are now entering into the rainy season and as we speak a lot of construction has stalled.
When most professional programs on campus became dormant during the pandemic, more and more students continued to register to take the Huawei ICT Academy program due to the Innovative Study at Home initiative which Huawei introduced for the students and instructors to be able to take the course irrespective of their location.
We thought they were about to combat.
The Speaker gave the assurance at a meeting with the Private Enterprises Federation (PEF) in Parliament on Tuesday morning.
Defending champions of the MTN FA Cup, Asante Kotoko had no problems in the round of 64 dispatching BYFA 2-0.
“I have been reliably informed that 1,000 students were admitted during the 2020/2021 academic year.
Really listen as your partner shares his or her feelings. Try to apply the suggestions you hear.
The police chased the stolen car and the bullet went through his body.
Each one of us was given three hundred dollars.
Additionally, seven units of 10-litre-oxygen concentrators are being presented by the Government of Ghana to India’s Ministry of External Affairs, through the Ghana High Commission in New Delhi.
One of the robbers manned the entrance, as the other demanded money after shooting thrice into the roof of the building, said one of the workers.
Also, he says these suspects have been picked up in relation to other related robberies in the region.
“One of the things I want to do is to engage civil society to present drafts on the proposed amendments that will better serve the business community.
President Muhammadu Buhari has said he is“deeply saddened” by the crash.
But praising children simply to make them feel good may cause them to develop a distorted view of themselves.
If so, be assured that things can improve. But first you need to find out why you and your partner argue so much.
A Benjamin Boateng second half brace was enough to send Elmina Sharks past Metro Stars to the next round.
They have vowed to call off the strike only if the two are withdrawn from the hospital’s laboratory unit.
he judge, Mrs Susana Eduful, had earlier ordered for a pregnancy test on Rita.
In fact, research indicates that people who focus on material things are less excited and more depressed.
A youth named Sandra says: “Part of me wants to say that dating should be just for fun, but it’s no fun when one person is taking it seriously and the other isn’t.”
He then commanded everyone to lie down, and he took all the money,” Charity narrated the incident whilsr crying.
If you trust such a fellow, you'll lose everything you have.
He stood with his hands in his pockets.
Speaking after Chelsea's 2-0 defeat to Manchester City in the Community Shield, Willian said: "I've always made it very clear that I've always been very excited playing for Chelsea. I never said that I want to leave the club.
I don't regret a thing.
Don’t compare yourself to other people.
Today, my family is surprised by the taste of the dishes I prepare with simple ingredients
When you travel, you have plenty of time to think about whether or not you’re truly excited with your life.
Researchers have took notice a disturbing trend: Many young adults are entering the workforce with a marked sense of entitlement—an attitude in which they expect success, even if they have done little or nothing to earn it.
By the time Asamoah realized what was going on, the police had already picked up Abena.
Abena Buachiwaa, who balanced her career and tried to move up the organisational ladder as quickly as possible added, “I did all this having a stable relationship, getting married, having kids and training my kids.
This planned visit on Tuesday, 25th May, is in fulfillment of his pledge.
Our work matters. It affects prochanced uponly the ordering of the state. Promotion of the rule of law is at the heart of this Association’s vocation.
According to Justice Addo,it is preposterous for the Attorney General to have even suggested that the two were not students in the first place.
It can also be one of the most nerve-racking. Do the following scenarios sound familiar?
Researchers have took notice a disturbing trend: Many young adults are entering the workforce with a marked sense of entitlement—an attitude in which they expect success, even if they have done little or nothing to earn it.
List three things that you admire about your partner. The next time you get angry at something he or she does, think about the qualities that you identified. This may help you control your anger.
Dr Mensah also wondered how the Akufo-Addo led government has borrowed so much with little to show for in terms of infrastructural development.
Travel reduces stress
They would also be taught how to enumerate a household population, institutional population and floating population using the CAPI system.
It never occurred to me that my words would hurt her feelings.
Some expatriates of other countries in Ghana also participated in the noble cause.
Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each state.
Note what is conveyed by body language, eye movement, and tone of voice.
They also have a higher rate of physical and mental problems.
You regularly go out with a certain member of the opposite sex. Are you dating?
We [Minority] are following the case closely and nobody should make an attempt to cover-up what his doings have been in relating to his engagement or involvement in galamsey.
Additionally, seven units of 10-litre-oxygen concentrators are being presented by the Government of Ghana to India’s Ministry of External Affairs, through the Ghana High Commission in New Delhi.
The Association previously held a strike in January, 2021, but its members returned to work in February after the National Labour Commission (NLC) secured a court injunction compelling them to resume their duties while negotiations with government continued.
Eni is trying to find out if there is a viable solution that could be beneficial to all parties.
What is the purpose of dating?
The panel included Justice Jones Dotse, Justice Paul Baffoe-Bonnie, Justice Nene Amegatcher and Justice Sule Gbedegbe (retired)
The current system is a rip-off
A dog’s sense of smell is thousands of times more refined than ours.
They're not excited.
The government in its efforts to combat illegal mining launched the third phase of the new ‘Operation Halt’.
Speaking at a news conference, Assembly member for Abuakwa Wirenkyire electoral area, Kofi Poku said they have given the government a two-week ultimatum to ensure the bridge is fixed else they will block the stretch and prevent other people from using it.
Citi News‘ checks at some centers revealed that although many people turned up very early in the morning, as early as 4:00 am, they had not been served as at 10:00am.
If you don’t have meaningful relationships, online friends are as good to you as lifeless figurines.
But I think we are on the right track, I think we are well pluck into the journey; we have invested in automating our front office, we invested heavily in our back house, we’ve tried to develop digital platforms to our customers so they can work from home, our customers can access the bank from anywhere.”
But praising children simply to make them feel good may cause them to develop a distorted view of themselves.
The German Development Cooperation in Ghana (GIZ) has partnered with the Ghana Chamber of Technology to heighten Ghana’s Digital Transformation Agenda.
Those parents believed that the secret to building self-esteem was to ignore the bad and praise everything else.
And in a world on a mission to build self-esteem, that was considered the epitome of irresponsible parenting.
Next, determine the order in which you will want tackle your debts.
he districts are Asokore Mampong, Asokwa, Ashanti Mampong Municipal, Kwabre East, Ejisu, Old Tafo, Manhyia North, Manhyia South, Atwima Mponua, Atwima Nwabiagya, Atwima Kwanwoma, Sekyere East, Kwadaso, Bosomtwe, Suame, Bekwai, Oforikrom and Offinso.
Kɔtɔnima da a ɛto so aduonu mmeɛnsa.
The projects are being funded through the MP’s share of the District Assemblies Common Fund (DACF).
She further indicated that the contribution of the Information and Communications Technology sector to Ghana’s GDP was estimated to be 9.8% in 2019
An Educationist and the Head of the Centre for Professional Development at the Ghana Communications Technology University, Madam Araba Hackman Akanji, described the Huawei ICT Academy of which her University is an authorized Academy as well- structured professional certification program that prepares students adequately for the job market.
This year, it is estimated that an additional 180 thousand more children will be admitted into SHS.
They could even become easy targets for manipulators, thinking that such relationships are normal and that they shouldn’t expect anything better.
Next, ask yourself, ‘Is the reason for my anger so serious that I cannot be forgiving?’
The best way to improve any skill is to consult an expert on the subject and then to apply the advice he gives.
Unhealthy youths often become unhealthy adults, so it’s good for you to develop healthy eating habits now.
He reiterated his outfit’s commitment to supporting the government in its efforts to improve the lot of the citizenry.
You may also find yourself bonding with your significant other more than usual and connecting with them on a much deeper level.
They should have told us that when we get here, we need to go for re-registration. They should have done that.”
Sell nonessential vehicles, and maintain what you have instead of quickly trading in for newer models
Encourage your child to apologize quickly.
Before marriage, you might have been accustomed to making unilateral decisions
That kind of compromise builds a ‘team’ atmosphere rather than a power struggle
You have been married for only a short time, and your spending is out of control. Is your partner to blame? Not so fast! Think as a team, and consider some factors that may have caused both of you to get into this predicament
Do you know a young person who is dealing with a serious health problem? Do you have an illness or disability that prevents you from enjoying the activities that others your age take part in?
Hubtel can make it possible for people to make order online using the Hubtel app on their phones and we will deliver the items to the person.”
The total number of Engineers at the Ministry and agencies is 406.
The donation will be shared among 30 health facilities in rural areas across 14 different states/regions.
The court was told that Yeboah applied a cream into the girl’s vagina, which gave her a burning sensation, after which she inserted his finger into her and defiled her.
Around 6:30 in the evening, Kwesi would’ve finished his daily rounds/roaming and gotten back to where he sleeps
At the added meeting, the BA team promised to provide further information and data analysis to support it reason for the changes of its services from London-Heathrow-Airport to London-Gatwick-Airport and to enable the Government of Ghana to take a final position on the matter.
Our server will be offline on October 20th for scheduled maintenance.
If you find yourself sitting with your arms folded and shaking your head no (or just thinking it) when your partner is trying to talk out a problem with you, your discussion will never get anywhere
You expect some tumbles as you gain confidence as a cyclist.
I wasn't busy today.
We blazed the trail for participatory democracy and I am confident that out of the ashes of this legal setback, we will mobilize and rekindle the struggle for a better democratic Ghana.”
Give correction when necessary
He thus described it as an “embarrassing stain” on the country’s judicial and electoral systems as well as a major source of worry to well-meaning Ghanaians.
State capacity, reflected in its footprint in terms of mining regulations management and enforcement, reach of courts, policing, advocacy and self-restraint through representative associations, have fallen short of curbing the menace.
The total number of Engineers at the Ministry and its agencies is 406.
The District Chief Executive (DCE) FOR Ada West, Adzoteye Lawyer Akrofi, has denied ownership of the ambulance that was seen in a video, which has been widely circulated on social media, being loaded with bags of cement.
With the Ghana School of Law being the nation’s sole institution responsible for professional legal education, and for training eligible persons as lawyers and integrating them into the legal system, President Akufo-Addo expressed his delight about the project taking place under his Presidency. “I have been reliably informed that 1,000 students were admitted during the 2020/2021 academic year, a development which led to the Acting Director and Management of the School taking a cue from the double-track system initiated in our Senior High Schools, to introduce a triple-track system,” he added.
When further pushed by the Minority Leader, Mr. Haruna Iddrisu as to what percentage that represents in GPD terms, Mr. Adu Boahene stated that it represents 13% of Ghana’s GPD.
It takes planning to eat healthier, and oftentimes healthy food has to be prepared at home. But it’s worth the effort in the long run, and it can also save you money
“This kind gesture is mainly to show that Ghanaians from Africa are thinking of our Indian brothers and sisters and keeping their well being in our prayers,” he added.
It said the accused persons armed their employees with guns to protect their unlawful activities.
As for her changes of mood, those baffle me! And another thing​—when I cook, she becomes so critical, especially of the way I clean my hands on the dishcloth.
Laboratory Scientists at KATH began a one-week sit-down strike last week to protest the posting of two medical officers to the Laboratory Services Directorate of the hospital.
Your mind may be on other things just now. If so, do not pretend to listen. If possible, put aside what you are doing and give your mate your full attention, or perhaps you could ask your mate to wait until you are able to do so.
We need to spend time developing our private sector and and business community.
And in a world on a mission to build self-esteem, that was considered the epitome of irresponsible parenting.
Some issues may be relatively easy to settle.
I'm Winifreds's boss.
The census was originally scheduled for 2020, but will now take place from the 27th of June 2021.
So what are you waiting for?
This involves the use of the military to destroy all mining equipment at illegal mining sites and also apprehend illegal miners.
First, we received training in agriculture.
Asphalt overlay costs $200,000 -$250,000.
Just the act of planning a trip together with your partner can bring you closer than you were before – and make you excited.
I've made a lot of friends since I entered college.
Today, with the right techniques, one root alone is enough to feed the family.
He warned that government against any move to cover up his arrest.
Why should I worry about Effah
He then charged the police to hunt down the perpetrators and bring them to book.
The military returned Monday, May 17, 2021, at about 4:00 pm to burn a faulty bulldozer that escaped their notice and large water pumping machines.
“We want foreign investment, there is no doubt about that. Our lawyers will say we have given them an
invitation to treat. But that invitation to treat must not be an invitation to cheat. We want partnerships,
and that is why we want a new regime in the mining sector, so that everyone will pay their share.”
Jwewl was born in Boston.
We're about to eat.
His hospital has benefitted from 10 units of the Oxygen concentrators.
In the city of Port-de-Paix, about 50 family members have been displaced because the safety of their homes has been compromised.
Mr. Mahama says even though he is disappointed by the verdict of the apex court on the Election Petition, he is “legally bound” to accept it.
According to the contractors, getting paid for jobs done has become a difficult banter between them and the government leading to the death of some contractors.
“I will say to all persons in Ghana that we are taking all the necessary steps to ensure that the census adheres to the strict protocols of COVID-19.
Dr. Adjei made the statement while speaking to journalists at the end of a one-day LSM training session held for health workers in Kumasi in the Ashanti Region, on Friday, May 21, 2021.
“The Allied Health Professional Council regulates Allied Health Professionals, and the list is clearly stated in the schedule of Act 857 and it lists those who are allied health professionals – you must be a lab technician, you must be a medical laboratory technologist or a medical laboratory scientist.
According to him, in all his public service, he has always put the interest of Ghana first in every decision he has taken.
He don't know how long this situation is going to last.
The military returned Monday, May 17, 2021, at about 4:00 pm to burn a faulty bulldozer that escaped their notice and large water pumping machines.
Several officers at the Minerals Commission of Ghana have been moved or reassigned to various regional and district offices across the country.
Before, I cooked pumpkin in a very simple way, and my children didn’t like it at all.
Later in April, one Prince Charles Dedjoe, a businessman, suspected of killing his wife was also picked up by the police.
The UN estimates that overall, 75% of people in need in Tigray are now reachable; in May, this figure was only 30%.
The video was recorded by a concerned citizen, who wished to remain anonymous, according to Citi News’ Central Regional Correspondent, Calvis Tetteh.
I can make it.
The suspects are in police custody assisting with the Police investigation.
“I will get the relevant committees to look at the specific laws in question and work to address the disquiet,” he added.
I can't stand the noise.
Each of you make a two-column list. In the first column, write down which aspects of the issue you feel most strongly about. In the second column, list the aspects on which you feel that you could compromise.
The District Chief Executive (DCE) FOR Ada West, Adzoteye Lawyer Akrofi, has denied ownership of the ambulance that was seen in a video, which has been widely circulated on social media, being loaded with bags of cement.
“We have to literally break the banks, borrowed money that we have never borrowed before, exceed some of the very fine statistical limits that we have put in place.
If you have extra money at the end of the month, decide together what you are going to do with it
But you may have paused before responding to the second and the third.
You might feel even more justified if you feel that what happened was entirely your partner’s fault.
The Spanish giants are understood to have had three bids for Willian turned down by Chelsea, while he was also believed to be high up Jose Mourinho's list of targets in this window.
According to the contractors, getting paid for jobs done has become a difficult banter between them and the government leading to the death of some contractors.
The Speaker of Parliament, Alban S.K Bagbin, has assured the Ghanaian business community that Parliament remains committed to extensively engaging them on proposed amendments to laws that stifle the growth of local businesses.
In fact, one reference work poignantly describes adolescence as “one long goodbye.”
Deputy Chairman of the Electoral Commission, Dr. Eric Bossman Asare has assured Ghanaians that it will deliver very fair elections at all levels.
He was addressing concerns raised by the Federation on some compelling issues affecting the growth of the private sector, including laws relating to taxes.
Abena Buachiwaa, who balanced her career and tried to move up the organisational ladder as quickly as possible added, “I did all this having a stable relationship, getting married, having kids and training my kids.
The Anti-galamsey military task force (Operation Halt) has reportedly returned to the mining site of the ruling New Patriotic Party, Women’s Organizer for the third time to burn a generator plant and a wooden office structure at the mining site.
“The Ministry of Health was handling it earlier, so we were expecting that it would be solved by now. But as it stands, there is a need for us to step in. In the meantime, we want them to suspend the strike,” he stated.
Ghana’s total public debt stock has increased once again according to new data released by the Bank of Ghana.
Women usually prefer to talk out a problem before hearing a solution. In fact, sometimes talking is the solution.
he added Parliament will directly engage them on the drafting of amendments to laws that affect their operations in order to ensure that their concerns are fully addressed.
Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.
Learning to be humble will help your child both now and later in life​—for example, when seeking employment.
Kwabena is estimating how much money he'll need to finish the house.
My father doesn't like soccer.
I called Asamoah today.
Several officers at the Minerals Commission of Ghana have been transferred or reassigned to various regional and district offices across the country.
As for Charles Adu Boahen who is due for vetting, I want him to do the honourable thing and withdraw Black Star Brokerage before Wednesday.
Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.
It promotes such ideas as ‘You deserve the best’ and ‘Because you’re worth it.
the reports said heavy rains had triggered the landslide at Wangzongdian village in Henan province.
“It shows the deep roots of friendship that exists between the two communities since independence,” he added.
Things like cable TV and going out to eat may sound cheap at first, but they can hurt financially in the long run
Later, approach your mate and ask, “Did you feel that I was really listening to you?”
Let's call him Snoopy.
You’ve got to balance it, and that is what I did.”
These might include not eating enough, binge eating, or denying yourself an random treat
A child who learns to perform humble tasks at home is more likely to work well with others as an adult
This reciprocal visit follows on the heels of an earlier visit by Mr. Farouk Aliu Mahama, MP for Yendi to the Indian High Commissioner, to discuss issues of mutual concern, particularly the Yendi Water Project and other investment opportunities.
Speaking to Citi News, the National Public Relations Officer of the Association, Dennis Adu-Gyasi, said the decision was taken at an emergency meeting with its members.
he added the media must play a role in reminding Ghanaians about the devasting impact the pandemic has had on the world economy and the need to work with the government in finding solutions.
A youth named Sandra says: “Part of me wants to say that dating should be just for fun, but it’s no fun when one person is taking it seriously and the other isn’t.”
The Committee however cautioned Assistant Referee 2, Gifty Doku to be conversant with the Laws of the Game.
I get the sense that sometimes parts of the work can be a little boring, and I don’t want to be bored.
The Indian High Commissioner to Ghana, H.E Sugandh Rajaram, is scheduled to pay an official visit to Yendi on 25th May 2021 as part of his diplomatic overtures to strengthen ties between India and the people of Yendi.
Prof. Koffi has thus warned such supervisors that his administration will not tolerate the “attitude”.
My business collapsed during the Greek financial crisis, so we could no longer keep up with our mortgage and credit-card payments. I couldn’t sleep because of the stress
Loneliness is like quicksand. The more you wallow in it, the harder it is to get out of it. If you let it consume your thinking, soon you’ll have a full-fledged pity party that no one else wants to go to.
Prior to the rate being reduced to 14.5% it had been maintained at 16% for some time.
According to him, “We want to restructure the economy and move it from being a mere producer and exporter of raw materials to one that places much greater emphasis on value addition activities.
The MP urged chiefs and opinion leaders in the area to support initiatives that would facilitate teaching and learning in schools.
In a press statement, the Ghana Private Roads Transport Union (GPRTU) revealed that the increase is to accommodate the increase in fuel prices announced in May 2021, after long negotiations with stakeholders.
The Akuapem North Municipal Director of Education has assured students of the Akropong School for the blind that the concerns about their living conditions and treatment meted out to them by their headmistress will be addressed. The students accused the headmistress Mahela Narh of mismanagement leading to gradual collapse of the school and poor academics
Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at least in the elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education shall be compulsory. Technical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit.
You could ask for an extension or a lower interest rate.
Raising Considerate Children in a Me-First World
Your joke is funny no matter how many times I hear it.
He didn't like to ask for help even if he was starving.
A contract that’s supposed to go to tendering is given to a party person who knows nothing about construction.
When discussing matters that will affect your marriage partner, (1) explain how you would like to handle the situation, but present your thoughts as suggestions, not final decisions or ultimatums; (2) ask your partner to express his or her opinion, and acknowledge your partner’s right to hold a different viewpoint; and (3) “let your reasonableness become known” by adopting your mate’s preferences whenever possible.
The President is being accused of impunity for trying hard to enforce rules that people routinely ignore.
Children who are considerate are more likely to make friends and to enjoy stable relationships.
Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal, in the determination of his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him.
According to him, the application of larvicide is crucial in combating the development state of the vector.
The National Labor Commission (NLC), is expected to meet the management of the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital (KATH), the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GALMS), and the Health Ministry next week.
Humility benefits relationships
Children develop real self-worth, not by being constantly told that they are special, but through genuine accomplishments.
They would also be taught how to enumerate a household population, institutional population and floating population using the CAPI system.
A similar incident occurred in October 2020 where five persons were reported dead after they were trapped in a mining pit in the same district.
The high penetration of mobile money and increased digital payments in the country for productivity and growth of the Ghanaian economy.
The MP cut the sod last Saturday, May 23, for work to begin on the GH¢800,000 projects..
The meeting will seek to find an amicable solution to the stand-off over the posting of two hematologists to the laboratory service department of the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital.
Kwabena doesn't understand what you're talking about.
My friend needs to realize that a certain amount of sharing helps people bond together and helps others understand you better. It helps them to extend to you the friendship you need. I hope my friend eventually gets better and learns to overcome her fears about friendships.
He was, however, quick to add that there are a lot of serious minded supervisors in the university community and urged them to keep up.
It comes on the back of claims of the minister that government will be going hard on contractors in the coming weeks over shoddy jobs.
The man thought the lady was dead, so he then reloaded the gun and killed himself, dying instantly.”
Three hours is too short for us to discuss that matter.
Also, I was shocked at how Toru would stretch the truth. I told him that one lie leads to another and that if he didn’t stop, our marriage could not continue.
General Secretary of GUTA at Kasoa, Bright Agyemang, who was speaking to a section of the media expressed worry over the government’s inability to enforce the laws on foreign businesses in Ghana.
Let's call him Snoopy.
This is disturbing and shocking, because it didn’t happen anywhere in town but right in his house and that is what we are afraid of.”
So be sure your intentions are honorable
Consider three traps that could foster a me-first spirit in your children, and see how you can avoid those traps.
The President was expectant that the completion of the Law Village will expand access to legal education, without compromising on its quality, and, ultimately, assist in the administration of justice throughout the country.
“As many more lawyers are trained, it is my hope that, indeed, many more of them will join the public sector to enhance the quality of legal service delivery in the sector.
Finally, if you cannot meet your obligations, try to negotiate new payment plans with your creditors.
For example, some partners divorce simply because one partner feels that he or she “deserves better.
Aduana Stars beat Eleven Wonders courtesy a goal from Isaac Kwain.
A Benjamin Boateng second half brace was enough to send Elmina Sharks past Metro Stars to the next round.
According to him, the practice is illegal and unwarranted.
We have not heard from him since In the previous year.
Has something happened?
Dr. Hoyer, on his part, was confident that the establishment of Development Bank Ghana will help unlock opportunities for growth in Ghana, as well assist in the rapid recovery of the Ghanaian economy from the ravages of COVID-19.
The plan announced Tuesday calls for $54 billion in tax cuts.
“What is disturbing is that the excavators that have been taken from the mining sites are packed in towns, villages and by roadsides in clusters of 10 to 20, and there is a very high tendency that these excavators will find their way back to the galamsey sites during the night when our operations halt.”
We agreed with them that this was OK at our house but that they wouldn’t call me Mom when they were with their mother, Jane, or her family.
According to him, all other contrary claims are not true and should be disregarded.
The author is seventy, but he's no less productive than he was twenty years ago.
A Banking Consultant, Nana Otuo Acheampong said it is about time, premium was put on public financial literacy education, to guard against the collapse of the sector.
Where does your grandpa live?
WHAT IS HUMILITY?
The Member of Parliament (MP) for Sissala West in the Upper West Region, Mohammed Adama Sukparu has allegedly been attacked by unknown armed men in his constituency
When the President launched the ambulances In the previous year, there were about 307 of them, and we were mandated, as District Chief Executives, to find places for them
Use public transportation, or walk whenever you can.
Another resident said armed robbers have been breaking into the containers here.”
Might it be that you could make a concession from time to time? Why not at least think about your teen’s point of view?
Meanwhile, the suspect, James has been arraigned before court for prosecution.
ADRA is stepping in to help vulnerable individuals grow nutritious food to feed their families.
Having been born and raised in London, I have never seen anything quite like it, he added.
When she finds out, she is angry and calls him inconsiderate.
But their equipment was destroyed as well,”
This entails an appraisal programme of the Afina area including (but not limited to) production and interference tests in order to understand the potential benefit that a unitization of the Sankofa field and the Afina discovery could deliver.”
Clearly, when you date someone, you’re affecting that person’s feelings.
A week after severe flooding hit western Europe, devastating Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands, German officials said Thursday they fear the 158 people still missing there may not be chanced upon.
Rather than think of that as a drawback, consider the advantage.
Two pads may be used for a flow.
Be assured that compromise need not be a lose-lose proposition—not if you do it right.
Chelsea were unimpressive in defeat at Wembley on Sunday, but Willian says the team will need time to adapt to Sarri's new way of working.
Determine your current budget.
Expect your child to do chores.
Everyone charged with a penal offence has the right to be presumed innocent until proved guilty according to law in a public trial at which he has had all the guarantees necessary for his defence.
he added this has become necessary to improve access to fresh water bodies for irrigated farming and
other agricultural purposes.
The man I had always relied on had become helpless
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, on Wednesday, 26th May, 2021, cut the sod for the first phase of construction works to begin on the Law place of the Ghana Law School.
I asked twenty people to my party but not all of them came.
“We see this cashless society in its infancy in developing countries, and we are most likely to copy that
It has to do with petty bribery and corruption, and it has to do with bribery and corruption on a grand scale.
He is not as intelligent as his brother.
Speaking to Citi News, the National Public Relations Officer of the Association, Dennis Adu-Gyasi, said the decision was taken at an emergency meeting with its members.
Engineers are trying to imitate the design of the horse’s legs for use in four-legged robots.
I ate half the apple before I noticed there was a worm in it.
The Zoomlion General Manager for Ashanti East, Franklin Ofori Akuffo, indicated that LSM was one of the best interventions in the control of malaria.
“In fact, this particular programme would help so much in tackling mosquitoes from the larvae stage,” he added.
Sources close to Joy Business say the decision is due to a drop in traffic levels for winter as the UK continues to have quarantines and ‘red lists’.
I'm here by choice.
Explain, too, that a person with a balanced view of himself does not feel the need to broadcast his abilities to others.
The author is seventy, but he's no less productive than he was twenty years ago.
It is said the decision comes after consultations with two stakeholders on the way forward.
According to the police, the suspect, James Atobi Asante, started dating the victim’s mother some
three years ago when her father died under mysterious circumstances.
How long does it take to go to Madrid?
How long can the world stand by and watch these atrocities?
The Bank of Ghana In the previous year reported that 38.5 million people have mobile money accounts while 17.1 million of these accounts are classified as active translating to about GH₵569 billion worth in transactions.
But Dr. Adutwum says these assertions should be ignored because they are meant to score cheap political points to run down the New Patriotic Party’s (NPP) flagship program.
he added the application of larvicide was done at various mosquito breeding sites that could be dredged.
The prosecution said a team of officers in plain clothes and uniform, were dispatched to the scene to ascertain the facts.
His explanation that a solution would take time didn't satisfy anyone.
Lt-Gen Ibrahim Attahiru, was killed after a military Beachcraft 350 aircraft crashed in the north-western state of Kaduna on Friday, May 21, 2021.
He is a known advocate of media rights, representing journalists in court, helping repeal criminal libel, passing Right to Information legislation and speaking to the Press regularly.
So he killed the girl through the trap door, but fortunately, the girl survived, but the bullet hit her on the left breast.
Try to let grandparents from your first marriage have a place in your children’s lives.
The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures.
Mr. Amar Deep S. Hari, the Chief Executive Officer of IPMC, who commissioned the items, on a virtual platform for distribution from India’s famous mosque, Dargah Nizamuddin in New Delhi, India, expressed his gratitude to Ghanaians for this assistance.
Don't count your chickens before they hatch.
According to CEO of Ghana Chamber of Technologies, Dr. Septemberina Odame, “the country’s digital transformation journey from the inception of mobile money to the widespread availability of digital payment across the country and the growing number of Ghanaians employed within the space is a wonderful opportunity of leveraging technology to democratise crucial services and opportunities to all Ghanaians, regardless of their geographic and demographic’’.
The falling of the Berlin Wall was truly a momentous occasion.
As for Charles Adu Boahen who is due for vetting, I want him to do the honourable thing and withdraw Black Star Brokerage before Wednesday.
She added Africans have the expertise, the best weather and content creators, hence the only thing left are investors to fund projects.
I agree entirely with Sir. Sam when he says the economy keeps him awake at night
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, on Wednesday, 26th May, 2021, cut the sod for the first phase of construction works to commence on the Law Village of the Ghana Law School.
Meanwhile, the police is picking some reliable leads that will help apprehend the perpetrators of this heinous crime.
You may also find yourself bonding with your significant other more than usual and connecting with them on a much deeper level.
In recent decades, many parents have felt compelled to protect their children from any type of adversity.
A partner might say ‘I forgive you’ but still harbor resentment for what happened​—perhaps craving to get even.
Everyone has the right to a nationality.
Everyone charged with a penal offence has the right to be presumed innocent until proved guilty according to law in a public trial at which he has had all the guarantees necessary for his defence.
Also, I don’t think it’s wrong occasionally to have a candy bar or eat fast food. But that shouldn’t be all a person’s diet consists of.
Instead, discern the intent behind the words.
The passion and energy the minister was speaking with yesterday, I love it but he should put that same passion into settling us,” he told Francis Abban on Morning Starr Monday.
“What I’m saying is as at now, it seems there has been a satisfactory arrangement between the company (Santol) and then the authority [commisioner general].
On the other hand, the thinking was that showing any type of disapproval will only discourage a child.
You most likely had no problem answering the first question.
This is the man who's suspected by the police.
The Roads Minister made this known at government’s press briefing in Accra on Sunday May 23, 2021.
He's not stupid.
A friend of mine is struggling with chronic loneliness.
A child who learns to perform humble tasks at home is more likely to work well with others as an adult
Rather than taking note of ways in which you feel your partner ought to change, keep a changes-I-need-to-make list.
The Kenyan authorities have picked up a Ghanaian national who is alleged to have fraudulently obtained $83,000 (£58,490) from a woman in a romance scam.
Both partners should feel that they have been heard and have had a part in the decision-making process.
According to the GRA, Santol Energy and a few others have satisfactorily met the requirements to proceed with their business.
I also like this singer's voice.
I don't care who Kwabena talks to.
In Belgium, 24 were confirmed dead.
Do you know where Appiah and Abena are?
He reported himself to the police after the tragic incident which occurred around 5:30 pm, Friday evening.
In a survey of young adults, 81 percent said that the most important goal of their generation is ‘to become rich’—rating it far above helping others.
You need time to study your subject so that you can become familiar with the kind of problems you’ll face in the test.
Some even say that words can hit harder than fists.
Rather than shield your children from every hardship, prepare them for the challenges they will face as adults.​
So rather than give up, she may try another approach or simply work harder.
Asamoah doesn't think that Abena did all her homework by herself.
So the answer to all three questions is yes.
Parliamentarians were infuriated by an announcement in the House that the elections would be postponed because a staff member had tested positive for Covid-19.
I think that it's possible.
Calmly explain what offended you and why it made you feel that way.
Kwabena thought the teacher had given him way too much homework to finish in one day.
I get the sense that sometimes parts of the work can be a little boring, and I don’t want to be bored.
Government’s commitment to leaving a lasting legacy in professional legal education in Ghana is absolute,” he added.
The claim that ambulance belongs to [my district] is a lie.”
Their apprehension is understandable. After all, what dad or mom is excited to see a compliant child turn into a moody teen?
You never offer to help me” might really mean “I feel I’m not important to you.
This is a nationalexerciseand for the next few days we will require you to sacrifice your time and your energy
I try to have balanced meals from all food groups.
An unknown woman in an audio circulating on social media claims to have picked some information that the President had plans to sell Gimpa.
A dog’s nose is wet and is therefore better able to capture scent particles.
These might include not eating enough, binge eating, or denying yourself an occasional treat
So i am calling on them as a matter of conscience to withdraw those companies immediately.”
I liked going out, but she liked staying home.”
The baby was rushed to hospital and chanced upon to be unharmed.
he added, “the security men were deployed by the Company to protect the site so people don’t come around to steal but they were beaten by the military with the butt of the rifles”.
Security officials say some of the money given to the man was allegedly taken from Tala’s accounts.
Vice President Bawumia indicated that a new fiscal regime similar to the one prevailing in the oil sector
would soon be introduced in the mining sector.
The prosecution, led by Inspector Richard Amoah, prayed the District Court for a date to enable them to prepare
There will be innocent victims.
The more you study, the more you discover your ignorance.
Our work matters. It affects prochanced uponly the ordering of the state.
It’s a lot more, from Software to Hardware and in fact, when we talk about anything ICT or any solution in that regard, I realized that Huawei is the way to go, and bingo they have it all” he added.
The police chased the stolen car and the bullet went through his body.
Do nothing out of contentiousness or out of egotism, but with humility consider others superior to you, as you look out not only for your own interests, but also for the interests of others
“Ordinarily, I will not dignify such baseless allegations with a response to give it oxygen in the media space. However, such false allegations in the manner presented can be believed by some people.”
In a letter to the Chairperson of the African Union Commission, Mr. Mahama took notice that “the high political importance of the proposed assignment requires that the High Representative enjoy the unalloyed support and co-operation of all political stakeholders.”
Interchanges cost $10,000000 – $55000000 per kilometer and reconstruction asphalt costs about $1,200,000-1,400,000.”
Or maybe not! You might be among the many youths who are wisely putting off dating until they’re old enough to know themselves better.
I remember that I gave him the key.
What we are saying is that, with Hubtel is that, you don’t have to do that.
A starving person will eat almost anything.
Whereas it is essential, if man is not to be compelled to have recourse, as a last resort, to rebellion against tyranny and oppression, that human rights should be protected by the rule of law,
He's very studious.
The ceremony took place at the Academic Enclave near the University of Ghana Business School.
Mr. Charles Adu Boahen, the Minister of State nominee at the Ministry of Finance, says he resigned from his company Black Star Advisors in 2017, and does not engage in their business dealings.
Joe thinks it will rain tomorrow.
We have what it takes and we have the capacity; it requires leadership and that is the leadership I seek to bring through GCB Bank to drive this agenda.
Both statements offer praise, but the second one could unwittingly imply that inborn skills are the only ones your child will be good at.
How can you as a business continue to be in existence for so long and claim you are not making profit and so you cannot pay.
This he added the contract has been awarded with preliminary designs submitted pending approval for work to begin.
Key milestones such as the digitalisation of the passport office, digital addressing system, paperless ports, mobile money operability, and many others have increased the productivity and growth of the Ghanaian economy.
Our feelings are usually preceded by our thoughts, and we can take control of our thoughts.
Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in which the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration can be fully realized.
The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Bank of Ghana, for the first time since March 2020, reduced the policy rate to 13.5% after it was kept unchanged at 14.5 percent for six consecutive times.
Mr. Mahama says even though he is disappointed by the verdict of the apex court on the Election Petition, he is “legally bound” to accept it.
A breakdown of the debt numbers shows that the component of the debt secured outside the country remained relatively stable in the first quarter even dropping marginally to GHS141 billion in March, from the GHS142.5 billion recorded in January and February of this year.
Doing things for others is no guarantee that you will never be lonely.
This new thinking, the Vice President emphasised, was the guiding principle behind the decision to
leverage a fraction of Ghana’s vast bauxite deposits to build an integrated bauxite and aluminium
industry.
If possible, move into a residence with a smaller monthly payment.
Gen. Attahiru, 54, only took up his post in January in an overhaul of the military’s top brass.
Authorities have resorted to other private laboratories to meet the needs of patients who require such services.
Maintain a sense of humor. Take your mate’s concerns seriously, but learn to laugh at your own blunders.
Examine the wording of the loan or bill carefully, since creditors may be deceptive
There are better ways to resolve conflicts.
Would you still use the same tone of voice or choice of words? Then think of reasons why your partner deserves to be was speakingn to with even more respect and tact than does your friend or employer.
This entails an appraisal programme of the Afina area including (but not limited to) production and interference tests in order to understand the potential benefit that a unitization of the Sankofa field and the Afina discovery could deliver.”
I ran across an old friend when I went to the movies yesterday.
On average, a girl will have 13 menstruation circles a year.
Speaking to Citi Business News on the recent development, the President of GUTA, Dr. Joseph Obeng, welcomed the lowering of the policy rate but charged the government to introduce a system that will compel banks to reduce their interest rates in a manner that’s commensurate with the drop in the policy rate.
Ashanti Regional Environmental Health Officer, Mr. Don Awantungo, who was satisfied with the session, said the LSM training will help in controlling malaria cases in the region.
He built hospitals and helped the people of Africa improve their lives.
I hear a gentleman was picked up some few days ago at Jubilee House; one Damoah.
The media ought not to appear to be a den of impunity. Indeed, no institution of state ought to be above lawful enquiry, as Rule of Law demands.
We cannot continue on this lane forever, we have to make sense. We are thinking beings,” he pleaded with his colleague Parliamentarians.
Tickets are valid for just two days, including the day they are purchased on.
Talk to someone about your loneliness. Don’t keep your feelings hidden. Chances are, there are several other people you know who feel the same way you do. Sometimes all you need is one friend to keep you afloat
Why haven't you told Asamoah that he owes 300 dollars?
Asamoah lost the shopping list his mother had given him and just bought things he wanted to eat.
Ghana’s President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, has expressed prochanced upon commiserations to the Federal Republic of Nigeria following the unfortunate passing of its Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru and several others.
I played video games after I finished my homework.
The well being of the nation is the government's responsibility.
You taught me that.
I liked going out, but she liked staying home.”
“For example, you may have a big water body like a lake that we cannot readily drain or even a marshy area that serves as a source or breeding site for mosquitoes,” he added.
Delivering aid to Tigray has been extremely challenging over the past few months, despite the urgent need there.
The prosecution, led by Inspector Richard Amoah, prayed the District Court for a date to enable them to prepare
To this end, Mr. Adomakoh said “we are drawing on the bank’s relationship internally and partnerships and also externally with international finance institutions and with capacity building agencies to help drive this agenda.
I acquired a lot of new skills and experience from the trainings from ADRA
The government in its efforts to combat illegal mining launched the third phase of the new ‘Operation Halt’.
While you cannot expect instant love for new family members from all relatives and friends, you can ask them to be polite and fair.
It will not help matters if you vent anger on your mate​—even if you had no part in incurring the debt
Elastic muscle-tendon units absorb energy when the leg steps onto the ground, and much like a spring, they return it, propelling the horse forward.
Even if you think you are blameless in a situation, recognize that your version of what happened is probably not the whole story.
or example, a husband might write, “You spent the whole day with your friends and didn’t call me to tell me where you were.
Ghana’s total public debt stock has increased again according to new data released by the Bank of Ghana.
“There are many mines that are operating and for years, they tell us they have not made any profit so they cannot pay dividend to government. But they keep mining and mining.
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property.
You see evidence of that nearly everywhere—from the shameless way people defraud others to the aggressive way they drive, from their crude language to their explosive tempers.
Making children feel good about themselves became more important than teaching them to accomplish things that they could actually feel good about.
Mr. Frank Adu Jnr, a former Managing Director of CalBank Limited, told the GNA that Ghanaians were deeply touched by the plight of their siblings, hence their decision to support them with oxygen concentrators.
However, the alleged seizing of gold is untrue.
A me-first mentality also exists in many homes.
Referee Addokwei correctly ignored the assistant referee’s flag and ruled that a goal scored by Pearl Pia FC was perfect goal and not offside.
AngloGold Ashanti reported last week “with deep regret”, that an employee of its mining contractor at the Obuasi Gold Mine in Ghana, is “missing after a fall of ground in one of the operation’s mining stopes”.
Officials of the Self-Love chanced uponation thus donated about 1000 menstrual caps to students in the municipality.
“The problem we have in this country sadly is that our medical laboratory scientists do not appreciate their limitation.
“Whether teachers, doctors, students, drivers, businessmen and women or government employees – each of them contributed to the best of their abilities,” one of them told the Ghana News Agency.
Do not be sidetracked by what you really said; the issue is how your partner feels about what you said.
They have the horse.
I think unemployment and other factors are giving birth to this high-level rate of crimes and as a country, we are sitting on a timebomb”.
I've made a lot of friends since I entered college.
This comes after prices at the pumps in Ghana killed up by 12% due to the introduction of some taxes, increases in margins by the National Petroleum Authority, the industry, and price increases on the international market.
The Government needs precious time to retool regulations and bring responsible mining on stream.
The Speaker of Parliament, Alban S.K Bagbin, has assured the Ghanaian business community that Parliament remains committed to extensively engaging them on proposed amendments to laws that stifle the growth of local businesses.
You and a member of the opposite sex are attracted to each other.
My significant other works at a language school and loves it very much.
“Various caucuses have taken entrenched positions so people want to make sense, people are speaking logic, people are quoting protocols that exist that is binding, and yet nobody listens.
What are some of the things we are doing?
Vice President Dr. Bawumia gave an insight into the Akufo-Addo government’s approach to national
development when he was speaking the chiefs and people of the Essikado Traditional Area in the Western
region at the climax of this year’s Kuntum Festival on Saturday 4th September, 2018.
After all, a good marriage is the union of two good friends.
This is because of the embarrassment and pain they go through during this period”.
This incident comes at a time when government has renewed the combat against all forms of illegal small-scale mining in the country.
The Kenyan authorities have picked up a Ghanaian national who is alleged to have fraudulently obtained $83,000 (£58,490) from a woman in a romance scam.
I haven't eaten since breakfast. I'm hungry.
I think our clients have realized that over the last few years, in terms of technology, GCB Bank is transforming in getting into the digital space. GCB is moving from the traditional bank into a more contemporary.”
Dr. Nikhil Sharma from the District hospital Himachal Pradesh, stated: “Some angels from Africa are assisting to save lives in far off India and we will ever remain grateful to them for this kind gesture.”
Meanwhile, Executive Director of Child Rights International, Bright Appiah believes the ruling ordering Achimota School to admit two Rastafarian students is still in force despite the institution’s decision to contest it.“Once a ruling has been given, all the things that are required for the fulfilment of that ruling,
Dozens of miners are reported trapped in the illegal mining pit.
Adult stepchildren may fear losing their parent’s affection. Or they may feel that by welcoming a stepparent, they would be disloyal to their original family.
With an open mind, discuss the following: Was the matter really that serious? Could it have been overlooked?
The external debt component as of the end of March 2021 made up 32.5 % of the total value of the economy which is projected to be about GHS434 billion for 2021.
If you start with harsh words, the chances of reaching a peaceful compromise are slim.
Next, determine the order in which you will tackle your debts.
He was addressing concerns raised by the Federation on some compelling issues affecting the growth of the private sector, including laws relating to taxes.
“After driving on the Hamile road, terrible road, when we sat down, President beckoned me. he added, Minister, did you see the road we travelled on, the towns, and the conditions of the people?
When your son was younger, he was like a boat tied to a dock​—you. Now as a teenager, he is tugging at the rope, eager to set sail, and you get the impression that you are not invited on board.
I thought it was a lot of fun.
Granted, some of your peers might take a casual view of dating.
he added the COVID-19 catastrophe knew no boundaries, and urged Ghanaians to continue to abide by the safety protocols to prevent another wave of the disease in the country.
Meanwhile, a CNN report indicates that India reported 196,427 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, May 25, the lowest single-day rise in cases since April 14, 2021.
Research indicates that unmanaged anger increases your risk of high blood pressure, heart disease, depression, and digestive problems.
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality nor denied the right to change his nationality.
What is happening these days is a vibrant call for immediate solidarity, but also for a long-term commitment to a different ecological ethic, with respect for creation.”
Many children raised with unconditional praise have grown up unprepared for disappointments, criticism, and occasional failure.
You see evidence of that nearly everywhere—from the shameless way people defraud others to the aggressive way they drive, from their crude language to their explosive tempers.
The chief enumerated a number of infrastructure projects the MP carried out in the area, including rural electrification, mechanized boreholes, CHPS compounds, school buildings, and a communication tower.
From using technology to support remote learning to promoting information skills, literacy and reading, this is a great example of the difference a quality library can make.”
Platelets adhere to tissues around a wound, forming a blood clot and sealing damaged blood vessels
At a press briefing in Accra on Wednesday, Dominic Nitiwul said the military has been equipped to deal with such recalcitrant miners.
thus, encourage your child to identify those in need.
Speaking on the innovative and ubiquitous approach of the Huawei ICT Academy, Madam Araba Hackman Akanji was marveled at how the program continued to attract students even during the heat of the COVID-19 pandemic when schools closed down.
President Nana Akufo-Addo has already pledged the services of Ghanaian doctors and nurses to India should they be needed at any time.
The country has chalked significant success in its digital transformation agenda in the last decade.
She was advised by him to come back at once.
No one shall be held guilty of any penal offence on account of any act or omission which did not constitute a penal offence, under national or international law, at the time when it was committed.
He then directed me to work on the road. Today, my engineers are here, that road to Hamile is done and brought to a bituminous level” he added.
“Then all of a sudden, we heard his wife screaming ‘Please someone should help me!’
Vice President Bawumia indicated that a new fiscal regime similar to the one prevailing in the oil sector
would soon be introduced in the mining sector.
The next time you talk to your teen about an issue, help him to reason on how his choices reflect on him.
Many fathers and mothers thus began lavishing a constant flow of praise upon their children, even when those children did nothing particularly praiseworthy.
From using technology to support remote learning to promoting information skills, literacy and reading, this is a great example of the difference a quality library can make,” they stated.
By contrast, many other parents are training their children to put others before self, and with great benefits.
However, the Appointments Committee of Parliament is yet to vet the President’s nominees. The scheduled public hearing from Wednesday, June 2, which would end on Tuesday, June 15, will begin at 10:00 am each day.
“People are being transferred to the laboratory space and you people are sending them away and because of that, there is a national strike.
I chanced upon this watch at the station.
Do I speak positively and appreciatively about others, or do I belittle them?
In times like this, there's nothing like a hair of the dog.
Whether on the phone or face-to-face, in the open or in secret, if you and a friend of the opposite sex have a special romantic understanding and communicate regularly, it’s dating.
Whereas Member States have pledged themselves to achieve, in co-operation with the United Nations, the promotion of universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms,
Point out how chores benefit others and how others will appreciate and respect him for doing them.
Yeboah was subsequently picked up and arraigned.
It is not possible for 420 officers and men to hide anything they have seized, it is simply not possible.”
We need to spend time developing our private sector and and business community.
That’s what marriage should be about—give and take, not just take.
The students did so well and instead [of] commending them, you look at these young men and women and tell them that they cheated”
She was shocked to find paraphernalia associated with witchcraft and magical rituals.
The 29-year-old has caught the attention of several of Europe's largest clubs this summer, including Barcelona and Manchester United.
A bulletproof vest was also retrieved from the suspects upon a search of their car.
According to the government, British Airways went ahead with the move without any consultation.
The Minerals Commission in a statement indicated that it visited the site around 11:00 a.m on the day of the incident, and that its Inspectorate Division has commenced full investigations into it.
At a press briefing on Sunday, Government Statistician, Professor Samuel Kakraba Annim, said the Service is taking all the necessary steps to ensure the safe conduct of the exercise.
Give praise when it is truly deserved
The Minority Leader, Haruna Iddrisu, has implored the Speaker of Parliament, Alban Bagbin, to summon the Attorney General (AG) to the House to explain the legality of the government’s approach of burning excavators and other equipment in the combat against illegal mining.
The MP cut the sod last Saturday, May 23, for work to begin on the GH¢800,000 projects.
British Airways has reverted to Heathrow Airport for its Accra London-Accra flights, for now.
Everyone knows everyone.
The five food groups include dairy products, proteins, fruits, vegetables, and grains.
The Ghana Statistical Service says it is collaborating with the Ghana Health Service to vaccinate about 85,000 field officials who will be involved in the 2021 Population and Housing Census, before the start of the exercise.
The temperature fell to five degrees below zero.
This is happening few months after a 53-year-old man was killed and killed in the same community during a disagreement over palm wine.
Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at least in the elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education shall be compulsory. Technical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit.
Whether you take a short, local trip or a major vacation to another country, travel can help you relax
He knows how to speak to children.
At least three of the people pulled out of the wreckage have been confirmed dead, including a victim believed to be 10 years old.
They are to reach the Clerk of the Committee not later than Monday, 24th May, through the address:
The Clerk, Appointments Committee, Parliament House, Accra, attentioned to Mrs. Rosemary Sarkodie.
Both statements offer praise, but the second one could unwittingly imply that inborn skills are the only ones your child will be good at.
The Nigerian Air Force said the incident happened as the plane was landing at Kaduna International Airport.
Mr. Eshun has rejected outrightly all the claims by the unidentified woman.
We, who are gathered in this room, know the law, which is the chanced uponation of law and order, and the chanced uponation of every organised and progressive society.
A beautiful woman was seated one row in front of me.
Joining a social network is no guarantee that you will never be lonely.
Your children will likely be more successful if they have reasonable goals and work hard to achieve them.
According to the Commission, preliminary investigations indicate that the small-scale miners were working illegally at the site which falls within the prospecting license of Adio-Mabas Ghana Limited.
She added that he defiled her several times. ASP Larye said in view of the trauma the 10-year-old has
endured over the period, a Psychologist has been engaged to counsel her.
She claimed, the feeding fees collected from the students were given to the matron of the school to buy food items to cook for the students in her private hostel.
Only persons who took their first COVID-19 jab between 1st and 9th March 2021, are eligible for the second jab currently being administered.
The Minister of Roads and Highways has revealed that President Akufo-Addo was on the verge of weeping when he travelled on the Hamile road in the Upper West Region, sometime ago.
I assure all of you that this project is the beginning of greater things to come for the Ghana School of Law..
This kind gesture makes Ghana the first African country to have undertaken such an initiative.
She may even shy away from new challenges, fearing that she will fail.
The farm production of this year is better than we expected.
Several officers at the Minerals Commission of Ghana have been transferred or reassigned to various regional and district offices across the country.
On separate sheets of paper, each of you should write down the topic of a recent argument.
To save this nation,Government is being compelled to resort to radical measures, including burning equipment chanced upon near river bodies and in forest reserves.
My neighbor's son made fun of my daughter today at school.
They sounded the alarm when they saw the enemy approaching.
Prof. Teye has thus warned such supervisors that his administration will not tolerate the “attitude”.
Some issues may be relatively easy to settle.
Akua decided to go to Gbawe Palace
Even good people make mistakes, perhaps repeatedly.
The system was designed in a way that it came with the introduction of the MASLOC CARD for applications.
He was, however, quick to add that there are a lot of serious minded supervisors in the university community and urged them to keep up.
COVID-19 cost us [Ghana] about GHS21 billion.
If you don’t react, they lose interest.
But now that they are teenagers, we have conflicts over everything.
Akwesi thought the teacher had given him way too much homework to finish in one day.
This incident comes at a time when government has renewed the combat against all forms of illegal small-scale mining in the country.
People say I look about the same age as my sister.
The Speaker gave the assurance at a meeting with the Private Enterprises Federation (PEF) in Parliament on Tuesday.
Former President John Mahama has withdrawn his acceptance of the African Union’s appointment as its High Representative for Somalia.
One apparent restraint to our progress, what we may term the missing link in our governance system, which hampers the rapid economic development we seek, is the deficit in the application of the rule of law.
Meanwhile, the police is picking some reliable leads that will help apprehend the perpetrators of this heinous crime.
The prosecutor said the father questioned her about why she was crying, and she disclosed that Yeboah called her to come for money to buy biscuits, revealing that “when she followed him to his room, Yeboah put her on his bed and inserted his penis into her vagina”.
Might it be that you could make a concession from time to time? Why not at least think about your teen’s point of view?
In any case, the statement explained that parties to a unitization agreement have to contribute to the costs and liabilities deriving from the development and production of hydrocarbons, related facilities, and other expenses
Under her watch as the Minister of Education in 2015, 23.9% of the students obtained Al to C6 in Maths!.
As part of his visit, the High Commissioner and the MP shall pay a courtesy call on the Yaa-Naa, and also hold crunch meeting with the MP and other dignitaries, and visit the Yendi Water Project site.
Government’s commitment to leaving a lasting legacy in professional legal education in Ghana is absolute,” he added.
Medical oxygen becomes essential for treatment of severe COVID-19 patients.
Bullying is no trivial matter. A British study chanced upon that more than 40 percent of the youth suicides reported in the national media appeared to involve bullying as a contributing factor.
Defence Minister, Dominic Nitiwul has refuted assertions that military officials deployed to stop illegal mining have confiscated gold from galamsey sites.
My driving instructor says I should be more patient.
“The next line of action is for us to meet with the National Executive Council to discuss the way forward.
The command would like to inform the public through the media that all cases of crimes reported in the region are under investigation.
Over 852,000 have so far received the first jab in the first phase of the vaccination exercise.
Are there many flowers in the garden?
Kwabena doesn't think he can win.
Happiness does not depend on having the latest things.
He kept badgering her until she told him what he wanted to know.
“We don’t want the raw bauxite being taken out of Ghana anymore.
Some people collect friends the way others collect figurines. But having a roomful of collectibles never made anyone feel loved.
ASP Larye said the suspect was sharing the same double-bed with the victim and that is how the man got the opportunity to take advantage of the young girl.
Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at least in the elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education shall be compulsory. Technical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit.
Do I speak positively and appreciatively about others, or do I belittle them?
The lure of easy credit can also make it easy for newlyweds to overspend.
The least she can do is commend the hard-working teachers and heads of this nation who supported these students through thick or thin because they did the impossible.”
The development comes as the GRA is clamping down on OMCs across the country that have not met relevant statutory requirements.
He has quickly accepted the verdict of Ghana to work together and is doing so.
An olive branch symbolizes peace.
The Appointments Committee of Parliament is set to commence vetting of the nominees on June 2, 2021, but even before the process starts, the Minority Leader insists some nominees are already engaging in activities pre-empting the work of the committee.
Dr. Samuel Thomas, an India physician, from a community hospital of Tamil Nadu State, expressed his gratitude to Ghanaians for the timely donation, which according to him, would go a long way in treating critically ill patients.
he added the roads ministry is moving the defect liability period from 12 months to five years.
If you have loans with a high interest rate, you might benefit by getting a new loan at a lower rate to pay off the existing ones.
You feel lonesome, don't you?
There’s another reason why waiting is wise.
Making children feel good about themselves became more important than teaching them to accomplish things that they could actually feel good about.
At that altitude the weather can change rapidly without warning.
These are allied health professionals.
He then commanded everyone to lie down, and he took all the money,” Charity narrated the incident amidst tears.
Mr. Suleymana outlined some efficiency measures being rolled out to up the game in service delivery.
You might find that the aspects that you both feel strongest about are not really all that incompatible.
On the other hand, the thinking was that showing any type of disapproval will only discourage a child.
Abena and Kwaku care about privacy.
Here I was torn between going to the hospital and being with my daughter or honouring that appointment,” she added.
“I, thus, consider it necessary to put out this statement because the allegations made in the audio recording have no iota of truth, are pure fabrications, and are malicious, with the sole aim of courting public disaffection for me as a senior official of this government.”
All he wants is mutual responsibility and accountability for our actions.
We have recently been able to work on the data thanks to the intervention of the Ministry of Energy and delivered our analysis in the direction of finding a viable solution regarding the potential optimization of the recovery of oil reserves”, it added.
Government’s commitment to leaving a lasting legacy in professional legal education in Ghana is absolute,” he added.
“[It] really struck us as an amazing story of transformation and an example of how library services can tackle some of the most pressing social issues confronting their users.
Which list do you want to dwell on at this point in life?” Remember, no one is perfect​—including you.​
On the other hand, the component of the debt secured locally increased steadily in the first 3 months of 2021.
This he added the contract has been awarded with preliminary designs submitted pending approval for work to start.
And in a world on a mission to build self-esteem, that was considered the epitome of irresponsible parenting.
It is illegal in the United States for law enforcement to use torture to get information.
The flagbearer of the National Democratic Congress (NDC) in the 2020 polls, Mr. John Dramani Mahama has assured Ghanaians that he won’t compromise the nation’s stability.
Try to avoid debt and spend only the money you have.
Loneliness is, above all else, a mind-set. “It comes from inside a person, not from outside
She also claimed that Kofi Eshun had told them that the Gimp was going for 500 million, but did not specify whether the added amount was in cedis or dollars.
As a matter of fact, this project has already turned into a Deja Vu and in complete limbo.
Depending on your family or cultural background, you might be in the habit of expressing your opinion firmly, even bluntly.
One apparent restraint to our progress, what we term the missing link in our governance system, which hampers the rapid economic development we seek, is the deficit in the application of the rule of law.
The Minority Leader, Haruna Iddrisu, has cautioned Deputy Minister nominees to desist from holding themselves as if they have been approved to function.
You can wait in this room.
Joining a social network is no guarantee that you will never be lonely.
The Armed Forces have not seized any gold.
“We have decided that we are not going to allow what has happened to gold and manganese to happen with bauxite.
Following an agitation by citizens, the National Petroleum Authority rescinded its decision to increase the fuel margin to 17 pesewas per litre
The Vice Chancellor of the University for Development Studies (UDS), Prof Gabriel Ayum Teye says “the reports reaching his office indicate that some supervisors hardly give quality guidance to the students assigned to them and this does not help in the production of quality thesis.”
But you may have paused before responding to the second and the third.
Asamoah felt the urge to run away.
Another resident said robbers have been breaking into the stores here.”
I shouldn't have to put up with this noise.He demanded that the savage dog be kept tied up.
EACH day presents people with numerous opportunities to do kind things for others.
Even if they are incompatible, having all aspects of the matter on paper will help you and your partner to see the issue more clearly.
I assure all of you that this project is the beginning of greater things to come for the Ghana School of Law.
By contrast, many other parents are training their children to put others before self, and with great benefits.
The Education Minister, Dr. Yaw Osei Adutwum was earlier today outraged over what he termed as the 'unilateral position' by the Governing Board of Achimota school to appeal the High Court Order.
Taking the group of children to the library was no problem.
The five food groups include dairy products, proteins, fruits, vegetables, and grains.
“Maybe because they [other mining companies] do not have a political voice, they were not making noise.
Can you recommend a place to stay in London?
“It shows the deep roots of friendship that exists between the two communities since independence,”
All are equal before the law and are entitled without any discrimination to equal protection of the law.
You cannot say you want to sacrifice career over family or sacrifice family for your career.
It promotes such ideas as ‘You deserve the best’ and ‘Because you’re worth it.
Chief Whip of the New Patriotic Party Caucus in Parliament, Frank Annoh-Dompreh, who is also a member of the Pan-African Parliament (PAP), the legislative body of the African Union, has called for calm following a row that ensued during the election of leadership for the continental body.
The juggler wowed the crowd by keeping ten oranges up in the air.
Nana took a piece of candy from the bag.
They contributed money to the Red Cross.
Why not make your partner feel the same way? Even if you do not believe you were wrong, you can apologize for the hurt your partner feels or for the unintended consequences of your actions.
You very nearly guessed it.
We think that if by Wednesday nothing happens, we will take it [issue] up and escalate the industrial action on a national scale.”
“It shows the deep roots of friendship that exists between the two communities since independence,” he added.
Also, if you regularly give appropriate praise, likely your child will welcome feedback on how he can further improve.
That's the worst thing that could possibly happen.
Some young people who lack social skills isolate themselves from others and become easy marks for bullies.
In conclusion, the lack of self-restraint within the general populace, if not addressed resolutely, will overwhelm every progressive initiative of Government. The Hon. Greater Accra Regional Minister, embarks on a major clean up in response to our own complaints about a clean Accra and immediately, his methods, some of which are necessary, are questioned when the affected people are mostly breaking the law and rules with impunity.
Try to have consistent rules and discipline in the two households.
Calls by the Ministry of Health and management of KATH for the scientists to resume work for dialogue to begin have yielded no results.
Which subject do you like the most?
Mr Polley said each trainee had been given a hard copy of the Field Officer’s Manual, questionnaire and tablet among other things for the training.
A joint operation by the counter-terrorism unit of the Ghana Police Service in the Northern Region led to the arrest of two people with an AK-47 rifle and pump-action guns in Tamale.
This is a nationalexerciseand for the next few days we will require you to sacrifice your time and your energy
What is the purpose of dating?
They are: Chen Guibin, Yao Zengcan, Lu Xiaobin, Wu Xiaobin, Cheng Churoung, and Xue Lianhua.
Mind you, we left out the security and the staff who work in the hospitals and clinics of the various campuses, among others.
Following the drastic surge of Covid-19 cases in India this month, some Ghanaians, have in a kind gesture of brotherliness, provided a donation of 150 medical grade oxygen concentrators to needy hospitals in that country.
I read at least one book every month.
Include the person in the conversation if you are in a group.
First, though, you need to consider the causes and why it is in your best interests to make changes.
Asamoah had his ear pressed to the door, trying to hear what was going on in the next room.
If we don’t get police protection; we cannot feel safe.”
Shortly after they begun, we realized that the list had been replaced with another one that had other people.
Asamoah wasn't excited.
The President indicated that the design and operation of the Bank, “which has been on the drawing board for the last two years”, will satisfy the highest standards, scrutiny and best practices of Development Banks across the world, assuring further that the €170 million facility from the EIB will be used for the purposes for which it was sought.”
Praise specific actions.
The interest in Willian came after his relationship with previous Chelsea head coach Antonio Conte broke down during the season.
he added: “The foreigners have taken over our market that is why GUTA is complaining, they have taken over all across the country but as it is now, Kasoa is the strongest area for these foreigners.
ASP Godwin Ahianyo also disclosed that four suspected notorious armed robbers in the region have been picked up and remanded into police custody
Time and time again, we get to witness different regimes of governance after so many years but Ghanaians continue to be served with a high level of ineptitude and multiple cases of abandonment of government projects.
According to him, “We want to restructure the economy and move it from being a mere producer and exporter of raw materials to one that places much greater emphasis on value addition activities.
I want to assure them that this particular activity, I will not relent on it, and I am going to the extent of petitioning the IMF and the World Bank, I will also petition the International Investor community and I will petition CHRAJ to look into this.
Those parents believed that the secret to building self-esteem was to ignore the bad and praise everything else.
She says: “Thinking back two years ago, what I would have looked for in a potential mate was so different from what I would look for now.
A similar incident occurred in October 2020 where five persons were reported dead after they were trapped in a mining pit in the same district.
The University challenged those pursuing sandwich programs to make use of library facilities and electronic-resources at their disposal else, they will end up leaving the institution academically ignorant thereby not developing the critical analytical skills for situations.
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance.
In conclusion, the lack of self-restraint within the general populace, if not addressed resolutely, will overwhelm every progressive initiative of Government. The Hon. Greater Accra Regional Minister, embarks on a major clean up in response to our own complaints about a clean Accra and immediately, his methods, some of which are necessary, are questioned when the affected people are mostly breaking the law and rules with impunity.
So we will call on the Bank of Ghana or the government to find a way to introduce a base cap or make some compelling arrangements that will make the banks come along,” he added.
“They returned on Saturday, sprinkled petrol on the generator plant, and around our office facility and set fire into them.
We are forming this corporation, and will be forming partnerships with anybody who comes, a joint venture, to build an integrated bauxite and aluminium industry.
So in dealing with the advanced countries, we need to adapt what they are using”, he urged
Furthermore, it said “Ghana as a prominent hub of mining in Africa has not fared badly in regulating the formal subsector of its industry but in recent times, a notorious trend of mine accidents and incidents with its consequential fatalities happening in some of the underground operations, particularly AngloGold Ashanti, Obuasi Mine, and its surrogate Underground Mining Alliance that has claimed three precious lives since June 2020, are becoming a blot on the enviable record chalked up by Ghana, especially after the structural adjustment programme in the 80s”.
If you were to do all the things you want and not listen to your partner or give your partner a chance to express another view, you would be living as if you were still single
Now things have changed, and both you and your partner must put your marriage above your personal preferences.
As a judicial officer of well over forty years standing, H.E the President is keenly aware of our capacities and what must be done to bring us up to speed. This is what he added in September 2018 to the Ghana Bar Association gathered in conference;
The gathering was told that distance courses have been started for candidates in remote districts who hardly get opportunity to upgrade themselves and that the initiative is aimed at widening the university’s coverage to allow teachers and other workers in “distant communities” to obtain qualifications that are relevant to their career objectives.
Humility benefits your child’s future.
Three of the burnt excavators and a bulldozer were brand new being used for reclamation.
The Speaker gave the assurance at a meeting with the Private Enterprises Federation (PEF) in Parliament on Tuesday.
In Africa, Ghana is largely considered the leader in the digital transformation agenda.
General Secretary of GUTA at Kasoa, Bright Agyemang, who was speaking to a section of the media expressed worry over the government’s inability to enforce the laws on foreign businesses in Ghana.
They arrested her.
Teenagers tend to demand more freedom than they can handle, but parents may tend to extend less freedom than they could grant.
The President said, when I was in my car, I felt like weeping when we were driving on that road.”
In the city of Koblenz, in the badly hit western German state of Rhineland-Palatinate, police said at least 125 people were now confirmed to have died.
The more you try to gain control, the less control you may end up having.
That kind of compromise builds a ‘team’ atmosphere rather than a power struggle
Kwabena chanced upon some skeletons in the cupboard when he was researching his family history.
The woman, whose narration in the 2 minutes 5 seconds audio did not seem coherent, erroneously referred to Asante Bediatuo as the President’s was speakingsman.
Kwabena walked over to the woman with a drink in her hand and asked her what her name was.
We think that if by Wednesday nothing happens, we will take it [issue] up and escalate the industrial action on a national scale.”
What I mostly knew about Huawei then was mainly their smartphones and devices as well as strides in the Telecoms, but going there I realized that it’s much bigger than what we see or hear.
Having lots of friends is no guarantee that you will never be lonely.
Avoid misleading maxims.
He went to London a month ago.
This year, it is estimated that an additional 180 thousand more children will be admitted into SHS.
The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures.
Government’s commitment to leaving a lasting legacy in professional legal education in Ghana is absolute,” he added.
Toru did whatever his family asked, but he did not consult with me. I asked him, ‘Who is more important to you, your mother or me?
Some creditors may even be willing to reduce what you owe if you can pay the lower amount in full right now.
The crash comes three months to the day after a Kenyan military plane crashed short of a runway in the capital Nairobi killing all seven people on board.
Financial sustainability, identification of the poor and vulnerable, delays in reimbursing service providers due to huge volumes and values of claims, compromised quality of care, illegal charges to insured members as well as delays in the submission of claims have been identified as some of the challenges of the National Health Insurance Scheme.
It can also be one of the most nerve-racking. Do the following scenarios sound familiar?
Kwabena leaned over to put on his shoes.
A 48-year-old mason has been sentenced to 15 years in prison for defiling a four-year-old girl at Suhum
The vaccination exercise is scheduled to take place from the 31st of May to 8th of June 2021.
According to Justice Addo,it is preposterous for the Attorney General to have even suggested that the two were not students in the first place.
For project supervision, the Ministry also engages the services of Consultants,” he added.
The second phase of Ghana’s COVID-19 vaccination exercise has started across the country but with incidents of undue delays at various centers.
How? By indulging their child’s every whim, while hesitating to administer any kind of discipline.
Kwabena told Abena that it was too cold to go outside without a coat.
They also need to care about other people’s needs.
In a statement, the miner said the incident occurred on Tuesday morning and “immediately triggered a search and rescue effort”.
he added small group discussions using English and local languages would be used to ensure that concepts, definitions and procedures for collecting data were well understood.
He took notice that the establishment of the Bank is in line with the objectives of the European Union, and will help develop Ghana’s private sector, agri-business, manufacturing and ICT initiatives.
Also, using the military as the primary enforcement agent is wrong. It should be police.
The Vice Chancellor expressed the sentiments in a speech read for him by the Principal of the Tamale Campus of UDS, Prof. Sylvester Z. Galaa at the matriculation of graduate students pursuing sandwich programs in Tamale.
He killed an arrow at the soldier.
Provide updates when her children are with you, focusing mostly on the good.
As soon as I can get my son to scan our family photos, I'll upload some of them to our website.
The donation will be shared among 30 health facilities in rural areas across 14 different states/regions.
“I was here around 5.30am. It is almost 12:00pm, and I have just got vaccinated. Those of us who came here were asked to write our names and form the queue so that we will be served in that order. Shortly after they begun, we realized that the list had been replaced with another one that had other people. This angered many of us, and it generated a lot of confusion. Those in charge of the exercise haven’t done well,” an elderly man who got his second jab at the Legon Hospital told Citi News.
In principle we are not opposed to unitization, but this needs to follow an appropriate, shared work programme and evaluation process to assess the elements listed above before taking decisions in the interest of all parties.
As a medical doctor, I am not an allied health professional so under no circumstance can that regulatory agency regulate my practice.
According to him, the practice is illegal and unwarranted.
Prof. Opoku-Agyemang, a former Education Minister in the NDC administration, who also was running -mate for the opposition National Democratic Congress (NDC) in the 2020 elections, has discredited the 2020 WASSCE results, suggesting that there was mass exam cheating by the students.
To her, it is out of place for women to think they have to sacrifice their family for their career or vice versa.
Show “fellow feeling” to the children’s mother by making it clear that you are not trying to replace her.
The Chief Director of the Ministry, Dr D. D. Darku in a statement on Wednesday, June 2 stated that the incumbent government will not expend such a far-fetched amount on just one kilometer of road when it seeks to complete 6000 km by 2024.
Kwabena wants to escape.
By contrast, many other parents are training their children to put others before self, and with great benefits.
The victim was rushed to the Manhyia Hospital for treatment but was pronounced dead on arrival.
Ashanti Regional Environmental Health Officer, Mr. Don Awantungo, who was satisfied with the session, said the LSM training will help in controlling malaria cases in the region.
It is GIZ’s goal to strengthen Ghana’s Digitalization Agenda by building a strong partnership with the private sector, a good collaboration with stakeholders in Ghana from government, academia and civil society and innovative approaches.
Do nothing out of contentiousness or out of egotism, but with humility consider others superior to you, as you look out not only for your own interests, but also for the interests of others
“The Ministry of Health was handling it earlier, so we were expecting that it would be solved by now, but as it stands, there is a need for us to step in.
What happened? There's water all over the apartment.
The boy lost his ear in a street combat.
All are entitled to equal protection against any discrimination in violation of this Declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination.
Ashanti Regional Environmental Health Officer, Mr. Don Awantungo, who was satisfied with the session, said the LSM training will help in controlling malaria cases in the region.
Do you think the road is wide enough for cars?
You don't need to memorize a dictionary to have good knowledge of a language.
There was a minute's silence and sirens sounded across the country.
“One of the things I want to do is to engage civil society to present drafts on the proposed amendments that will better serve the business community.
These sensors, called e-whiskers, “should have a wide range of applications for advanced robotics, human-machine user interfaces, and biological applications,” says Ali Javey, a faculty scientist at the University of California, Berkeley.
It would be recalled that on Thursday 25th March,2021, one Emmanuel Antwi aged 40 now deceased was robbed of Toyota Prado vehicle by three armed men,” he added.
“Nana is indeed a true chip off the old block” Dr Bawumia declared, and called for the sustenance of the
peace and unity enjoyed by the people of Essikado and the nation as a whole.
He mentioned that aside the building the capacity of participants, the Seeds for the Future trains participants to become problem solvers and also inspires entrepreneurship.
It is instructive to note that the $30 million Yendi Water Project is funded by a facility from the Indian Exim Bank, and it is being executed by WAPCOS, an Indian civil engineering/consultancy firm.
When your husband feels that he is not being shown respect, ask him how you can improve, and take note of the suggestion.
A former Director-General of the Ghana Health Service, Professor Agyemang Badu Akosa, has hit hard at members of the Komfo Anokye Chapter of the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GAMLS) who are protesting the posting of the two hematologists to the Laboratory Service Department of the hospital.
Dr. Pinkrah in an interview gave assurance that transparent elections would be conducted in the country to ensure that those that are voted for are those who get the lead..
Both partners should feel that they have been heard and have had a part in the decision-making process.
Then his achievements will become a source of great satisfaction both to him and to you.​
The Spanish giants are understood to have had three bids for Willian turned down by Chelsea, while he was also believed to be high up Jose Mourinho's list of targets in this window.
He went to London a month ago.
The districts are Asokore Mampong, Asokwa, Ashanti Mampong Municipal, Kwabre East, Ejisu, Old Tafo, Manhyia North, Manhyia South, Atwima Mponua, Atwima Nwabiagya, Atwima Kwanwoma, Sekyere East, Kwadaso, Bosomtwe, Suame, Bekwai, Oforikrom and Offinso.
The two have been remanded by the court, whereas a third suspect, Alhaji Aminu Ayuba, the Yepalisi Chief, has been granted a police enquiry bail of GHS 200,000 and will reappear on May 31, 2021.
And how can you solve this problem?
That is because the so-called meeting never took place, or at least, not with me.
She went on to mention how the Huawei ICT Academy creates an easy pathway for students to enter the job market.
But the young person who is genuinely interested in what the recruiter has to say is more likely to get the job.
I was always honest with you, but you never tried to be honest with me.
Excessive debt also brings health risks, such as insomnia, headaches, stomachaches, heart attacks, and depression
Also, I don’t think it’s wrong occasionally to have a candy bar or eat fast food. But that shouldn’t be all a person’s diet consists of.
That type of silence can be beneficial.
Your son is behaving arrogantly​—and he is only ten!
“This kind gesture is mainly to show that Ghanaians from Africa are thinking of our Indian brothers and sisters and keeping their well being in our prayers,” he added.
“The problem we have in this country sadly is that our medical laboratory scientists do not appreciate their limitation. Two hematologists- where should they go and practice?
A spirit of forgiveness allows you and your mate to give each other the benefit of the doubt rather than to “keep score” of wrongs.
If you don’t have meaningful relationships, online friends are as good to you as lifeless figurines.
“They come to view relationships as transitory—which in a sense prepares them for divorce rather than for marriage.”
That way you will teach your child humility in the most powerful way
Even though computer programmers may use semicolons every day, nowadays most people only use semicolons for emoticons.
This is our main goal.
This intervention, he further took notice, will help decrease the number of malaria cases, “we see at a particular time or in a month.”
Carbohydrates can give you energy.
The pathologist believes it is problematic for the Allied Health Professional Council to dictate or regulate the functions of physicians and where they should operate from as it was seeking to do with the two hematologists.
Ghana’s President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, has expressed prochanced upon commiserations to the Federal Republic of Nigeria following the unfortunate passing of its Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru and several others.
The industrial action commenced after the Association claimed the government had consistently failed to address their concerns.
The Headmistress, Naomi Nyarkoa Yeboah however explained that she established the private hostel due to parents insistence to get their wards who could not get boarding status and secured accommodation where they will be supervised.
“People are being transferred to the laboratory space and you [laboratory scientists] are driving them away and because of that, there is a national strike.
Think of your partner as your teammate rather than an opponent
An oxygen concentrator is a device that concentrates the oxygen from a gas supply by selectively removing nitrogen to supply an oxygen-enriched gas stream.
We are confident that the analysis and the resulting report will allow the parties to progress discussions toward an agreeable, commercial solution of the matter”, it added.
Traveling builds resilience, and resilient people are typically happier.
Out of form Medeama returned to winning ways through a solitary goal from Zakaria Mumuni in the first half against Eleven Wise.
It promotes such ideas as ‘You deserve the best’ and ‘Because you’re worth it.
As a matter of fact, if the policy rate can go down even further it will be great.
The incident happened at Alavanyo Wududi in the Hohoe Municipality of the Volta Region in the early hours of Wednesday, May 26, 2021.
It can also be one of the most nerve-racking. Do the following scenarios sound familiar?
Just the act of planning a trip together with your partner can bring you closer than you were before – and make you excited.
If your son experiences the breakup of a romance, comfort him—but at the appropriate time help him to reflect on questions such as, ‘In hindsight, has this experience revealed any ways in which I need to grow?
If you and your partner conclude that the matter was trivial, apologize to each other and consider it settled.​
Once you start smoking, it is difficult to get rid of that bad habit.
Veteran Ghanaian actress, Akofa Edjeani, says it is about time Ghanaians and Africa as a whole start telling their own stories through movies.
Things like cable TV and going out to eat may sound affordable at first, but they can hurt financially in the long run
Chelsea midfielder Willian has committed his future to the club, saying he has always been "very excited" at Stamford Bridge.
If so, compromise should not be too difficult.
By the time you will come in the next day you will realize that almost all of your wares are gone.
He has thus advised Ghanaians to embrace this measure when its implementation begins.
Keep your priorities straight, and help your children to do the same.
Speaking at a news conference, Assembly member for Abuakwa Wirenkyire electoral area, Kofi Poku said they have given the government a two-week ultimatum to ensure the bridge is fixed else they will block the stretch and prevent other people from using it.
Your teenager makes a request, perhaps for a later curfew. You immediately refuse it.
In a memo, it said the airline had already made its decision known without much explanation.
“We have not really benefited from the extraction of our natural resources, and it is for this reason that
we need especially in the area of our minerals, to bring a new paradigm, a new thinking into how as a
country we can benefit more from our mineral resources,” the Vice President took notice.
I plead with the Hon. Minister [Naana Jane] that she should measure her words carefully when talking about WASSCE and WAEC”, he added.
he added Parliament will directly engage them on the drafting of amendments to laws that affect their operations in order to ensure that their concerns are fully addressed.
“When completed, these facilities will help to decongest the high number of pupils in the classrooms, promote reading culture among pupils and also provide comfort for teachers who sit under trees to mark scripts,” he added.
Some might even view such a friend as little more than a trophy or an accessory to be seen with in public to boost their own self-esteem.
Often, a fiery argument is really about something other than the event that ignited it.
She seems to get fatter and fatter.
This is not any personal attack against her. I am speaking to the facts.”
“We don’t want the raw bauxite being taken out of Ghana anymore. We will build a refinery here to
refine the bauxite to alumina, take it to VALCO, and get aluminium and you will see the massive increase
in value. This is going to be transformational,” the Vice President stated.
Exempting your child from family chores might give him the message, ‘You are too important to do this!’ Family duties should come first, and playing second.
These will be given out for free.
Our nation has had a lot of difficulties with our politics and governance structures, but for the past 25 years we have had a stable political system.
According to him, no such meeting has taken place between him and anyone on the subject matter.
Think: Would you like someone to play with your feelings as if they were some child’s toy—to be picked up for a moment and then quickly abandoned?
A friend of mine is struggling with chronic loneliness.
In the Upper West Region, the Wa Municipality has the highest coverage of 71 % in terms of active members as at June 2018 whilst Wa East District has the lowest of 32%.
A dog’s nose has two airways​—one for breathing, another for smelling.
In a statement, Eni said it has leverage on expertise in unitization, based on negotiation and execution of more than 130 unitization and pre-unitization agreements around the world including Australia, Algeria, Angola, USA, Croatia, Italy, Mozambique, Nigeria, Norway.
Security officials say some of the money given to the man was allegedly taken from Tala’s accounts.
Granted, some of your peers might take a casual view of dating.
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation.
I have a lot of Canadian friends.
I don't feel well today so put down your pencil.
She says: “Thinking back two years ago, what I would have looked for in a potential mate was so different from what I would look for now.
Many a bad headline can be traced to a law and order problem. In our country, currently, the problems confronting our banking sector are dominating the headlines, as they should. The story of every bank that has had problems, be they indigenous Ghanaian banks or international banks, like Barings Bank, Lehman Brothers, Bank of Credit and Commerce International (BCCI), each one can be traced to someone or some people breaking the law, or trying to cut corners by flouting regulations. The effects of these acts of lawlessness have been, invariably, the loss, and threat of loss, of innocent depositors’ savings and jobs.
It is not possible.
There has been a affinity for the total disregard for uncompleted projects in this country and we have seen one too many of these.
I'm glad to be invited to dinner.
However, marriage will test those skills in new ways and will likely require that you gain new ones. Will you make mistakes? Certainly. Can you gain the skills you need? Absolutely!
The Ghana Armed Forces (GAF) has expressed concern about the high number of excavators parked in mining communities.
Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each state.
A husband may at first exercise his headship clumsily, or a wife may be unaccustomed to making tactful suggestions.
Several times a day, you send text messages or talk to this person on the phone. Are you dating?
She used her hand to screen the sunlight from her eyes.
He also disclosed that among the 120 bridges is Dikpe, Iture and Ankobra Bridge, the Volivo cable stay bridge, Adawso to Ekyeamanfrom Bridge over the Volta in Afram Plains, 89 Mabey Bailey Bridges as well as the reconstruction of Buipe, Yapei and Daboya Bridges.
There was so much I had to do, and I had also booked an important appointment that I really had to be present for.
It is up to us”, she pointed out.
At was at this press conference that Kwesi Amoako-Atta announced that 6,000 kilometres of roads out of the over 11,000 kilometres of programmed roads will be completed in President Akufo-Addo’s second term.
For now, what is going to happen is that gov’t needs to restructure its policies and the policies should engage the private sector,” Dr Mensah said, adding, “the Government must reduce its appetite for borrowing from the local market.”
Normally, we eat three times a day.
The Anti-galamsey military task force (Operation Halt) has reportedly returned to the mining site of the ruling New Patriotic Party, Women’s Organizer for the third time to burn a generator plant and a wooden office structure at the mining site.
Keep your priorities straight, and help your children to do the same.
Why wait to date?
he added it was a national exercise and field officers were selected based on merit and not on political affiliation.
According to the police, in the early hours of Tuesday, June 1, 2021, four armed men on a motorbike stormed a non-bank financial agency and stole an amount of GHȼ138,000.00
I assure all of you that this project is the beginning of greater things to come for the Ghana School of Law.
“With the overall objective of creating a favourable environment to spur private sector-led growth, the Government of Ghana recognizes the importance of a substantial allocation of development capital to critical economic sectors at sustainable interest rates and longer tenures.
In view of the images of the violence of the raging waters in Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany, France, and other parts of Europe, how could we remain indifferent?
Talk to someone about your loneliness. Don’t keep your feelings hidden. Chances are, there are several other people you know who feel the same way you do. Sometimes all you need is one friend to keep you afloat
That is because the so-called meeting never took place, or at least, not with me.
The Speaker of Parliament, Alban S.K Bagbin, has assured the Ghanaian business community that Parliament remains committed to extensively engaging them on proposed amendments to laws that stifle the growth of local businesses.
He, thus, commended the organizers for putting together the training programme, pointing out that “we need to equip field workers so that they can do their work well.”
Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country.
Why did you leave Australia?
This is coming after AngloGold Ashanti announced the suspension of operations at its Obuasi mine, over a missing staff.
Sharing a typical example, Abena Buachiwaa took notice that she was recently overwhelmed with work and at the time her daughter was also not feeling well and had to make a choice between the two.
A trade delegation has gone to Japan ahead of the Prime Minister to crunch the numbers with their Japanese counterparts.
“As more lawyers are trained, it is my hope that, indeed, many more of them will join the public sector to enhance the quality of legal service delivery in the sector.
The author is seventy, but he's no less productive than he was twenty years ago.
A man believed to be in his 30s has killed himself dead after he killed his girlfriend, Melody Owusu, who he allegedly caught with another man.
Residents say, Sampson Ataafi suspected the lady of cheating, and trailed her new boyfriend at about 1:00 am on Tuesday, May 25.
I invite you to see and appreciate that many of the problems that plague our country have something to do with the mal-functioning of the law.
He took notice that, during the different phases of ‘Operation Halt’, some miners were chanced upon to be carrying out their activities at night.
Only one UN food convoy has successfully reached Mekelle this month
The Assembly Member should rather volunteer to bring the police if the government is not willing to bring police around here.
Everyone has duties to the community in which alone the free and full development of his personality is possible.
They have the horse.
he added when all stakeholders contribute their quota to improve teaching and learning environment in schools, pupils would perform better.
He has overseen an explosion in social media-attracting both Google and Twitter.
Promotion of the rule of law is at the heart of this Association’s vocation. Its members must be the natural champions of a law-based state, whose establishments should be solid enough to sanction effectively vigilantism, bank frauds, cyber frauds, sharp practice, illegal mining, unlawful exports of fertilisers and oil products, identity thefts, stealing of public funds, bribery and corruption, criminal cartels, and criminal behaviour in general.
This is disturbing and shocking, because it didn’t happen anywhere in town but right in his house and that is what we are afraid of.”
“Whether teachers, doctors, students, drivers, businessmen and women or government employees – each of them contributed to the best of their abilities,” one of them told the Ghana News Agency.
The earthquake was the greatest disaster the country had ever experienced.
Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay.
It follows a bloody eight-month battle between the Ethiopian army and the Tigray People Liberation Front (TPLF) for control of the Tigray region.
“From working with Commonwealth of Learning to support over 30,000 Ghanaians enroll in its Read2skill programme, supporting the Ministry of Education and the Ghana Education Service with a Learning Management System for Basic education and enhancing our Digital Library with video tutorials, supported by UNICEF to deploy mobile library vans to transport books to homes of young people in the era of COVID-19, it is a mark of innovation and relentlessness on the part of the staff of GhLA to support the Ghanaian life- long learner”.
Its members must be the natural champions of a law-based state, whose establishments should be solid enough to sanction effectively vigilantism, bank frauds, cyber frauds, sharp practice, illegal mining, unlawful exports of fertilisers and oil products, identity thefts, stealing of public funds, bribery and corruption, criminal cartels, and criminal behaviour in general.
The incident occurred on March 26, 2021, but the Ambulance Service’s attention was drawn to the development only when the video went viral on social media.
Then, when a conflict arises, they use a past event as a trump card to gain the upper hand.
She was advised by him to come back at once.
Deputy Chairman of the Electoral Commission, Dr. Eric Bossman Asare has assured Ghanaians that it will deliver very fair elections at all levels.
Teach your children that there is value in serving others.
Kwabena doesn't want his picture taken.
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile.
I want to assure them that this particular activity, I will not relent on it, and I am going to the extent of petitioning the IMF and the World Bank, I will also petition the International Investor community and I will petition CHRAJ to look into this.
I assure all of you that the project is the beginning of greater things to come for the Ghana School of Law.
Having a balanced diet shouldn’t take the joy out of eating, nor does it require that you obsess about every morsel of food you take into your body
Also, I don’t think it’s wrong occasionally to have a candy bar or eat fast food. But that shouldn’t be all a person’s diet consists of.
We also think that the lifestyle of people in Kumasi is also a Hubtel lifestyle.
Dr. Nikhil Sharma from the District hospital Himachal Pradesh, stated: “Some angels from Africa are assisting to save lives in far off India and we will ever remain grateful to them for this kind gesture.”
Whether you take a short, local trip or a major vacation to another country, travel can help you relax
His hospital has benefitted from 10 units of the Oxygen concentrators.
Asamoah doesn't think that Abena did all her homework by herself.
But that invitation to treat must not be an invitation to cheat.
I also like this singer's voice.
Would you prefer to do that today?
The National Labor Commission (NLC), is expected to meet the management of the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital (KATH), the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GALMS), and the Health Ministry next week.
“In fact, this particular programme would help so much in tackling mosquitoes from the larvae stage,” he added.
It is not possible for 420 officers and men to hide anything they have seized, it is simply not possible.”
Among other things, they are asking for the payment of market premiums and non-basic allowances as well as the finalisation of negotiations for their conditions of service.
Mmɛtɛɛmma Akofoɔ no brɛɛ mu yie ɔfa a ɛdi kan no mu na wɔtwɛnkɔsii simma 51 mu ansa na wɔnyaa kwan tetee mu firi Fabeo Gama atoprɛko (penalty) bi a ɔtu de too atena mu.
Nor shall a heavier penalty be imposed than the one that was applicable at the time the penal offence was committed.
I can make it.
My friend is also worried that she will be hurt, so when people extend the effort to get to know her, she either assigns bad motives to them or assumes that the friendship is bound to fail. She feels lonely because she isn’t understood by most people, but she refuses to share her feelings with them
So soldiers were not out to inspect licences,” the Minister explained at a press conference held in Accra on Wednesday, May 19, 2021. Mr. Nitiwul also defended the decision of the military to burn the mining equipment of miners operating illegally.
Mr Dame argued that “in the view of the state implies that the sum of ¢867,441.5 plus interest at the agreed rate of 6.5% per month calculated at the close of each day and payable at the end of every month from April 1, 2009, at the end of every month from April 1, 2009, till the date of final payment”.
That was pretty selfish of Asamoah not to let you use the car.
Chelsea were unimpressive in defeat at Wembley on Sunday, but Willian says the team will need time to adapt to Sarri's new way of working.
But Professor Nteful on Star fm said the strike is unchanced uponed, given that hematologists are equally qualified to work in laboratories.
The company believes the new intervention will serve as an avenue to make the lives of both business owners and customers much easier.
The complaint has also featured prominently lately in the the reports of external examiners.
Kofi George, a resident who narrated the incident to Citi News said: 
“I was told, the gentleman traced the girlfriend to the new boyfriend’s room.
The total number of Engineers at the Ministry and its agencies is 406.
Proteins can help your body combat infection and also build and repair tissues.
Your children can join in the effort. A father named Poku, describes his family’s experience: “My young son wanted a new bicycle, but we explained to him why we couldn’t afford it. Instead, we gave him a bike that had belonged to his grandfather, and he enjoyed riding it very much. I learned the value of working together as a family.”
But before considering how to compromise, there are a few things you should know about this vital skill.
The National Labour Commission (NLC) has secured an interlocutory injunction against the industrial action embarked upon by the GhanaAssociation of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GAMLS) at the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital in the Ashanti Region.
“By necessity is meant the assertion that conduct promotes some value higher than the value of literal compliance with the law”
Both of you could compromise.
He concluded saying “the covid-19 pandemic was a real test and I’m excited to say the bank really excelled in terms of using the digital platforms.
Really, dating is any social activity in which your romantic interest is focused on one particular person and that person’s interest is focused on you.
Mike can remember the chords to the song, but can't remember all the lyrics.
When your partner does speak, “be swift about hearing, slow about speaking, slow about wrath.”
In an interview on Eye witness News on Wednesday, the Head of Public Relations at the National Ambulance Service. Simmons Yussifkewura, indicated that the ambulance in question belonged to the Sege Constituency and was procured under the ‘One Constituency One Ambulance’ Initiative.
At the moment we are partnering another NGO called ‘ Couldyou? to provide Menstrual caps; a small cup inserted in the woman to collect blood.
She is also heard saying she proceeded to meet with Mr. Asante Bediatuo in the company of some chiefs in a bid to have the plans changed, but Mr. Bediatuo disrespected them.
The Encyclopædia Britannica acknowledges that “the functions of the whiskers (vibrissae) are only partially understood; however, it is known that, if they are cut off, the cat is temporarily incapacitated.
Water, forests, and minerals are important natural resources.
Parents want to make their children excited, and children want stuff,
He however indicated that his personnel will adjust their operations to apprehend the miners.
“We are not content with how the government has handled our issue so far, we are becoming more and more frustrated.”
“This kind gesture is mainly to show that Ghanaians from Africa are thinking of our Indian brothers and sisters and keeping their well being in our prayers,” he said.
Loneliness can stem from insecurities. It’s hard to reach out and be open to friendships when you don’t feel that you are worth another person’s interest
He will not shy away from that.
That way you will teach your child humility in the most powerful way
I discovered that my wife and I were less compatible than I thought.
He is of the view that no officer of the Armed Forces, “will risk his carrier and the livelihood of his family because he wants to pick an ounce of gold and hide it.
Members of the Indian Community in Ghana have lauded the prompt offer of help, which came from Ghanaians of diverse backgrounds.
This kind gesture makes Ghana the first African country to have undertaken such an initiative.
The man lost his way in the woods.
Mr. Anamoah-Mensah said this on the second day of the Citi Business Festival on Wednesday, June 2, 2021, on the Citi Breakfast Show.
What is happening then? To answer that question, let us consider the pivotal role that adolescence plays in your child’s development.
Moderation is always a good rule to follow
I would have preferred that he hit me rather than say such hurtful things.”
“In fact, this particular programme would help so much in tackling mosquitoes from the larvae stage,” he added.
The MP urged chiefs and opinion leaders in the area to support initiatives that would facilitate teaching and learning in schools.
This is the man whose daughter you met yesterday.
Mr. Adomakoh said the strategy is due to the constantly changing business environment and disruptions across many fronts.
The President continued, “with the 2021/2022 academic year fast approaching, the school is, again, faced with limited and overstretched facilities, hence the added importance of this project”.
President Akufo-Addo in September In the previous year launched the Free Senior High school, (SHS), policy which provided 90 thousand more students gain access to Senior High school.
Road contractors in the country have urged Roads and Highways Minister Kwesi Amoako-Atta to resort to the same passion with which he condemns bad roads in paying contractors for jobs done.
She may even shy away from new challenges, fearing that she will fail.
Whereas Member States have pledged themselves to achieve, in co-operation with the United Nations, the promotion of universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms,
However, if these African stories are championed, it could attract a lot more investors who will also sell the movie in the international market, the Aloe Vera actress said.
It was thought that if children were made to feel special, they would grow up with healthy self-esteem.
Meanwhile, the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists has announced that the strike would be escalated nationwide from Wednesday, May 26, 2021.
With the Ghana School of Law being the nation’s sole institution responsible for professional legal education, and for training eligible persons as lawyers and integrating them into the legal system, President Akufo-Addo expressed his delight about the project taking place under his Presidency.
The Headmistress also said the students bed were the excess beds which were packed under the mercy of the weather.
A couple should trust each other and work together when deciding how money will be spent.
Some people say that it is impossible to give your child too much praise. Others claim that constant praise will spoil your child and make him feel entitled, as if the world owed him something.
If you were to do all the things you want and not listen to your partner or give your partner a chance to express another view, you would be living as if you were still single
Meanwhile, government has earmarked 120 out of 200 programmed bridges in various part of the country for completion this year.
The man and his wife helped each other.
Over 8,000 teachers are being employed to handle the sandwich classes.
A total of 360,000 persons in 43 districts of the country, 25 in the Greater Accra Region, 16 in the Ashanti Region and two in the Central Region, have been targeted to receive their second doses in this new exercise.
President of the NGO, Hillary Ekuoba Gyasi believes the removal will make them affordable to teenagers especially from less privileged homes and deprived communities.
This is the man who's suspected by the police.
How can a couple keep debts from driving them apart?
Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence worthy of human dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by other means of social protection.
I had extremes of very-high-calorie binge days and very-low-calorie strict days. Finally, I decided to stop counting calories, to be careful not to overeat, and to stop eating when I was full. It took time, but now I have a balanced diet.”
“Globally, activities around mining in general are risky but the level of risk exposure doubles when the operation is underground. It is against this backdrop that the industry is heavily regulated in terms of occupational health and safety standards and best practices”, it said.
The book Step Wars quotes one woman as complaining about the way her husband tends to side with his adult children and refuses to acknowledge that they treat her unkindly.
It's a matter that concerns all of us.
One key aspect of Ghana’s economy to have benefited from this digital transformation agenda is the Mobile Money Industry.
Only persons who took their first COVID-19 jab between 1st and 9th March 2021, are eligible for the second jab currently being administered.
I had no other way of contacting you, so I came here in person.
As a matter of fact, this project has already turned into a Deja Vu and in complete limbo.
For a month, keep track of your eating habits. How often do you go to one of the extremes described above? What adjustments can you make to have a balanced diet?
“I will get the relevant committees to look at the specific laws in question and work with you to address the concerns,” he added.
Bullies want to know that they’ve succeeded in making you feel bad about yourself
They contributed money to the Red Cross.
Unconfirmed the reports suggest that many of the victims are not residents of the community as none of the residents could identify any of the deceased.
When you focus on what you didn’t get, it’s too easy to forget all of what you did get.
We will however continue to be the voice of the voiceless and will not be distracted demanding justice and fairness at all times.”
“Neither will we surrender nor fail to champion the rights of all our people to enjoy the fundamental freedoms guaranteed under our constitution.”
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo released his list of deputy ministers on April 21, 2021
They have vowed to call off the strike only if the two are withdrawn from the hospital’s laboratory unit.
We were attending to a customer when a fair lanky man entered and held the customer.
“When completed, these facilities will help to decongest the high number of pupils in the classrooms, promote reading culture among pupils and also provide comfort for teachers who sit under trees to mark scripts,” he added.
So we will call on the Bank of Ghana or the government to find a way to introduce a base cap or make some compelling arrangements that will make the banks come along,” he added.
Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security and is entitled to realization, through national effort and international co-operation and in accordance with the organization and resources of each State, of the economic, social and cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his personality.
The passion and energy the minister was speaking with yesterday, I love it but he should put that same passion into paying us,” he told Francis Abban on Morning Starr Monday.
When you upset your wife by the way you exercise or fail to exercise your headship, ask her how you can improve, and then write the suggestion down.
She was shocked to find paraphernalia associated with witchcraft and magical rituals.
Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person.
Really, dating is any social activity in which your romantic interest is focused on one particular person and that person’s interest is focused on you.
Brazil is a young country without a commitment to the past.
I had hardly sat down on the bench when I chanced upon it had just been painted.
Achimota School insisted that they comply with the School’s regulations by shaving their dreadlocks.
Finally, scar tissue remodels and strengthens the damaged area
I am sure in the next 20 years, cash will be scarce in a lot of countries including Ghana, and I think Ghana is moving quite quickly towards that stage”, he added.
According to the police, the suspect, James Atobi Asante, started dating the victim’s mother some
three years ago when her father died under mysterious circumstances.
Members of the Chapter have declared an indefinite strike starting Thursday, 27th May, 2021, over the move, after they started with a one-week sit-down strike.
I did not have to sacrifice my family just to pursue a career.
Prior to the second wave of COVID-19, Ghana had become one of the first recipients of the Indian manufactured COVID-19 vaccines under WHO’s Covax program.
How to Be Humble
If so, be assured that things can improve. But first you need to find out why you and your partner argue so much.
Accordingly, there has been a heightened need to establish the Development Bank Ghana.
Mr. Mahama nudged his supporters not to give up on their dreams for the party to come to power.
WHY IS HUMILITY IMPORTANT?
He expects everyone to treat him as special.
The authorities also recovered fake currency and materials used to print fake money.
The President of the Ghana Union of Traders Association (GUTA), Dr. Joseph Obeng is accusing banks in the country of running a cartel arrangement that keeps interest rates high despite reductions in the monetary policy rate.
Ransford is suspicious of Europeans.
And I think that the investment the bank has made over the last couple of years has been worthy.
Mr. Chairman, as I mentioned earlier, I resigned from the board and management of Black Star Advisors in 2017.
Some of the contractors have moved from sites because the contractual agreement hasn’t been met.
he added issues affecting the private sector, including shortcomings in the tax collection system and general misunderstanding of the tax laws in the business community, must be addressed by Parliament.
I wasn't even in Boston the night Yaw was murdered.
“Nana is indeed a true chip off the old block” Dr Bawumia declared, and called for the sustenance of the
peace and unity enjoyed by the people of Essikado and the nation as a whole in general.
I would say that the gap between the policy rate and interest rates in still very high.
The Minerals Commission has begun investigations into the mining accident that occurred on Wednesday, May 26, 2021, at Denkyira Breman/Brofoyedu in the Upper Denkyira West District of the Central Region.
Luxembourg, Austria, Switzerland, France, and the Netherlands have also been affected by the extreme rainfall but have not reported any fatalities.
Following the court's decision, Achimota School through its board announced that it will appeal the decision.
Yet, this is the President who has opened up the most space in the political governance arena.
Increase your income.
All he wants is mutual responsibility and accountability for our actions.
I love the fact that you always seem to care so much.
I’ll never forget the names they called me or the things they said.
The MP has cut the sod last Saturday, May 23, for work to begin on the GH¢800,000 projects.
We have already engaged with the Ministry of Health through the Ghana Health Service, and they had an engagement with Dr. Anthony Nsiah Asare, who is the Presidential Advisor on Health, and a confirmation has been given that all 85,000 officials that we are going to engage from the beginning of 31st May 2021, will be vaccinated. All our 85,000 supervisors will go through the exercise.”
The five food groups include dairy products, proteins, fruits, vegetables, and grains.
They are to reach the Clerk of the Committee not later than Monday, 24th May, through the address:
The Clerk, Appointments Committee, Parliament House, Accra, attentioned to Mrs. Rosemary Sarkodie.
The President of PEF, Nana Osei Bonsu, who led the delegation, said it was time for the legislature to create a periodic dialogue platform where issues affecting the private sector could be discussed with members of the House.
The Minerals Commission has begun investigations into the mining accident that occurred on Wednesday, May 26, 2021, at Denkyira Breman/Brofoyedu in the Upper Denkyira West District of the Central Region.
If your son experiences the breakup of a romance, comfort him—but at the appropriate time help him to reflect on questions such as, ‘In hindsight, has this experience revealed any ways in which I need to grow?
Preliminary investigations had established that the accused were into buying, selling and refinery of gold without authority, according to the prosecution.
Now your partner starts talking to you—something about expecting people tonight.
Whereas the peoples of the United Nations have in the Charter reaffirmed their faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the equal rights of men and women and have determined to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom,
A key to preventing arguments is identifying the underlying issues that fuel them.
"Without doubt, we all like this style of play, all the players," he added. "We have to do all we can to keep improving.
With support from government, we are pulling all of these agencies together to come up with a model that works, that is transparent, that has the right corporate governance and that will seek to see the private sector growing.”
Do nothing out of contentiousness or out of egotism, but with humility consider others superior to you, as you look out not only for your own interests, but also for the interests of others
Vice President Bawumia commended the Omanhene of Essikado Traditional Area, Nana Kwabena
Nketsiah V for his “continuous drive and contribution towards a better Ghanaian society for all”.
Many partners withhold forgiveness because they misunderstand what extending it will mean.
Asamoah and Abena kissed passionately.
Mr Mahama’s letter further cautioned the AU Chairperson, Moussa Faki Mahamat, that the lack of support by the Federal Government could “jeopardize the whole process and undermine the hopes that the entire world has in bringing peace to the esteemed land of Somalia,” a statement from the Office of the former President said.
He was addressing concerns raised by the Federation on some compelling issues affecting the growth of the private sector, including laws relating to taxes.
Be reasonable about what you expect of yourself.
The Chief Executive Officer of NIMED Capital Limited, Abena BuachiwaaBrigidi, has encouraged women that they can have both a career and a stable family at the same time.
This reciprocal visit follows on the heels of an earlier visit by Mr. Farouk Aliu Mahama, MP for Yendi to the Indian High Commissioner, to discuss issues of mutual concern, particularly the Yendi Water Project and other investment opportunities.
Men tend to think in terms of solutions. That is understandable because fixing things makes a man feel useful.
Ashanti Regional Environmental Health Officer, Mr. Don Awantungo, who was satisfied with the session, said the LSM training will help in controlling malaria cases in the region.
Whereas it is essential, if man is not to be compelled to have recourse, as a last resort, to rebellion against tyranny and oppression, that human rights should be protected by the rule of law,
Such a robotic arm has already been developed and is being used in simulated operations.
In another six months you will be able to speak German fluently.
“There are many mines that are operating and for years, they tell us they have not made any profit so they cannot pay any dividend to government. But they keep mining and mining..
Prof. Koffi has thus warned such supervisors that his administration will not tolerate the “attitude”.
We suddenly realized what was happening.
Kwabena reads the New York Times.
Then discuss your lists together.
Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal pay for equal work.
Which came first, the chicken or the egg?
But from recent developments at MASLOC, the project has been in limbo and nothing purposeful has come out of it.
Even if they are incompatible, having all aspects of the matter on paper will help you and your partner to see the issue more clearly.
He had an unpleasant screechy voice.
It's better to take your time at this job than to hurry and make mistakes.
For a month, keep track of your eating habits. How often do you go to one of the extremes described above? What adjustments can you make to have a balanced diet?
I'm glad to hear that your sister is out of danger after her operation.
A husband may at first exercise his headship clumsily, or a wife may be unaccustomed to making tactful suggestions.
This is the mistake that unfortunately, the allied health professionals are making.”
We are pleading with the government to bring policemen here.
I discovered that my wife and I were less compatible than I thought.
Such regenerating materials are equipped with tiny parallel tubes containing two chemicals that “bleed” when any damage occurs. As the two chemicals mix, they form a gel that spreads across the damaged areas, closing cracks and holes. As the gel solidifies, it forms a tough substance that restores the material’s original strength.
The industrial action commenced after the Association claimed the government had consistently failed to address their concerns.
“Nana is indeed a true chip off the old block” Dr Bawumia declared, and called for the sustenance of the
peace and unity enjoyed by the people of Essikado and the nation as a whole.
The prince was changed into a frog.
This intervention, he further took notice, will help decrease the number of malaria cases, “we see at a particular time or in a month.”
“What I’m saying is as at now, it seems there has been a satisfactory arrangement between the company (Santol) and then the authority [commisioner general].
Kwabena doesn't remember too much about what happened that day.
Then discuss your lists together.
I have been hearing people forcing the Armed Forces to accept that they have seized things that they have not seized.
Can you get me that Waakye from Nhyiaeso?
If you travel with your partner, you will quickly learn how you each communicate and how you can improve your relationship.
Even if one person in a marriage handles the finances and pays the bills, both should be fully informed about their financial status. Communication goes a long way in preventing problems
My friend is also worried that she will be hurt, so when people extend the effort to get to know her, she either assigns bad motives to them or assumes that the friendship is bound to fail. She feels lonely because she isn’t understood by most people, but she refuses to share her feelings with them
She doubted how the students were able to pass the exams in the wake of what she described as ineffective teaching and learning amidst alleged widespread leakage of the exam papers, asking Ghanaians not to celebrate it as a success.
According to Kwesi Amoako-Attah, the Hamile road was in such a terrible state that travelling on it with the President was near impossibility.
Narrating the incident to JoyNews, one of the deceased’s co-tenants said the incident which happened around 7:40 pm has brought fear into the house because the headmaster was killed on his own compound.
“We heard of the leakage of the exams, we heard of invigilators being compromised, we heard many things, and we also saw the students come out and speak about, ‘this is not what we were told will happen’, now these students have As, and we are excited?
I want to do what I used to do before I went to prison.
But after each misstep, they get up, learn from the experience, and move on. How can you help your child to cultivate that positive approach?
No country has developed significantly without the development of the private sector and it is only banks like GCB that have the capacity to develop the Ghanaian private sector”, he added.
The authorities also recovered fake currency and materials used to print fake money.
This marks a decline from the first week of May when the country was reporting more than 300,000 cases daily. It has also reported 3,511 fatalities, on Tuesday, the lowest single-day death toll since May 4,2021.
Part of the programmed bridges for construction Mr. Amoako-Atta said are 50 bridges under the Czech Bridges Programme of which “bridge components are being fabricated in Czech Republic with the arrival of 21 of them in the country pending the start of work.”
The Laboratory Scientists have been on a sit-down strike for close to a week now, in protest against the decision.
Those in charge of the exercise haven’t done well,” an elderly man who got his second jab at the Legon Hospital told Citi News.
Furthermore, it said “Ghana as a prominent hub of mining in Africa has not fared badly in regulating the formal subsector of its industry but in recent times, a notorious trend of mine accidents and incidents with its consequential fatalities happening in some of the underground operations, particularly AngloGold Ashanti, Obuasi Mine, and its surrogate Underground Mining Alliance that has claimed three precious lives since June 2020, are becoming a blot on the enviable record chalked up by Ghana, especially after the structural adjustment programme in the 80s”.
That kind of thing can't be chanced upon just anywhere.
Things like cable TV and going out to eat may sound affordable at first, but they can hurt financially in the long run
When you praise effort, you teach your child that ability can improve with practice. Your child might then take on new challenges more confidently.​
The accomplishment provides evidence of something that they yearn to see​—growth.
At a press briefing in Accra on Wednesday, Dominic Nitiwul said the military has been equipped to deal with such recalcitrant miners.
Moderation is always a good rule to follow
The Ashanti regional capital, Kumasi which is one of the fastest-growing cities in Africa has not fully taken advantage of the e-commerce space as many residents still go through traffic as part of their busy schedules in order to purchase items.
According to him, “NDK through a process of categorizing the judgment debt into ‘ascertained’ and unascertained’ parts, has been persistently making claims for humongous sums from the applicant herein, albeit totally unjustifie
Some might even view such a friend as little more than a trophy or an accessory to be seen with in public to boost their own self-esteem.
The leadership of the Association, on Tuesday, met a delegation from the Ministry of Employment and Labour Relations to look into their demands for the payment of their outstanding Tier-2 pension contributions and improved conditions of service but that meeting ended inconclusively.
There was so much I had to do, and I had also booked a crucial appointment that I really had to be present for.
Asamoah will have an answer for you by next week.
Right now, all I want to do is sleep for a few hours.
Be assured that compromise need not be a lose-lose proposition—not if you do it right.
“This kind gesture is mainly to show that Ghanaians from Africa are thinking of our Indian brothers and sisters and keeping their well being in our prayers,” he added.
“We heard of the leakage of the exams, we heard of invigilators being compromised, we heard many things, and we also saw the students come out and speak about, ‘this is not what we were told will happen’, now these students have As, and we are excited?
This is a book about feelings.
Researchers say that dogs can use their sense of smell to detect the age, gender, and mood of other dogs.
The Speaker gave the assurance at a meeting with the Private Enterprises Federation (PEF) in Parliament on Tuesday.
So far as the laboratory space has different professionals, the headship can be based on competence, so we cannot sit here and say that the laboratory should be for laboratory scientists alone.
You should pay your rent in advance.
We had built our home with love, and I couldn’t bear the thought of losing it. Joe and I fought many times about how we would deal with our debt
When further pushed by the Minority Leader, Mr. Haruna Iddrisu as to what percentage that represents in GPD terms, Mr. Adu Boahene stated that it represents 13% of Ghana’s GPD.
Kwabena doesn't want his picture taken.
Women usually prefer to talk out a problem before hearing a solution. In fact, sometimes talking is the solution.
The incident happened between Jefisi and Bulu at about 7:50 pm when the MP was returning from a funeral he attended at Jefisi.
Paul is estimating how much money he'll need to finish the house.
The ceremony took place at the Academic Enclave near the University of Ghana Business School.
Oil firms, Eni and Vitol say they do not oppose unitization but rather working with the Ministry of Energy, the Petroleum Commission and the Ghana National Petroleum Corporation to find a mutually acceptable solution to enable Ghana capitalize on the Afina discovery.
All of this requires humility.
Mr. Mahama urged his supporters not to give up on their dreams for the party to come to power.
The apex court rather awarded an amount of ¢14,689 as judgment debt to NDK Financial Service.
The Appointments Committee has, consequently, invited Memoranda on the nominees from the public
for consideration.
“Whether teachers, doctors, students, drivers, businessmen and women or government employees – each of them contributed to the best of their abilities,” one of them told the Ghana News Agency.
I'm warning you not to do it again.
Mr. Mahama’s appointment as the AU envoy was welcomed by the Council of Presidential Candidates of Somalia, and the Coalition of Somalia’s Federal Member States.
His hospital has benefitted from 10 units of the Oxygen concentrators.
The most important thing, however, is for the banks to be responsive.
But there can be a drawback. Praise focused on talent alone could cause your child to think that the only skills worth pursuing are those that come easily.
To prepare your adolescent for adulthood, you need to help him develop his “power of reason” so that he will be able to make sound decisions on his own.
At least three of the people pulled out of the wreckage have been confirmed dead, including a victim believed to be 10 years old.
The analysts are of the view that such measures when applied should be followed to the letter to ensure compliance.
Meanwhile, the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists has announced that the strike would be escalated nationwide from Wednesday, May 26, 2021.
According to the Commission, preliminary investigations indicate that the small-scale miners were working illegally at the site which falls within the prospecting license of Adio-Mabas Ghana Limited.
The external debt component as of the end of March 2021 made up 32.5 % of the total value of the economy which is projected to be about GHS434 billion for 2021.
We can't find a good sewing machine anywhere.
Parents and children can start discussions on such topics as ‘When is buying things on sale a good idea?
Mr. Mahama urged his supporters not to give up on their dreams for the party to come to power.
In fact, research indicates that people who focus on material things are less excited and more depressed.
In his address to some personnel during his visit to some illegal mining sites, the Chief of Defence Staff took notice that the illegal miners now mine at night under the protection of heavily armed men.
Lt-Gen Ibrahim Attahiru, was killed after a military Beachcraft 350 aircraft crashed in the north-western state of Kaduna on Friday, May 21, 2021.
“The next line of action is for us to meet with the National Executive Council to discuss the way forward.
“This is the President of the Republic.
He further explained that Ghana’s roads would not have been in their current state if previous governments had tackled the road sector in a serious and robust manner like the way President Akufo-Addo’s administration is doing.
According to him, this forms part of government’s broader plan of improving the country’s road network and bring development close to Ghanaians.
Mr. Mahama also took a swipe at the Supreme Court saying it has set a “dangerous precedence” by not allowing the Chairperson of the Electoral Commission to testify during the trial.
The training, which took place in Kumasi, was organised by Zoomlion Ghana Limited (ZGL) in partnership with the Ghana Health Service (GHS) under its National Malaria Control Programme (NAMCOP) and Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research (NMIMR).
We flew from Boston to Chicago.
The Domestic Violence and Victim Support Unit (DOVVSU) of the Kasoa Divisional Police Command, has
picked up a 52-year-old man for allegedly defiling his 10-year-old step-daughter at Kakraba in the Central
Region.
Praise specific actions.
She makes all her own clothes.
Witnesses told police that the train was travelling way over the speed limit when it derailed going around a bend.
The 2020 total transactions represented about 84% growth from the value recorded in 2019.
“I know there are some who believe that the ongoing exercise of ridding our water bodies and forest zones of toxic equipment and machinery is unlawful and, in some cases, harsh.”
The development sparked a huge debate on social media, with many criticising the government for failing to ensure that the ambulance was being used for the purpose it was intended for.
As a couple, it may be difficult to talk about money, but do not let money cause problems in your marriage.
All these come at a time the government has renewed the combat against all forms of illegal mining to protect the country’s forest reserves and rivers.
He hung a lamp from the ceiling.
Don’t compare yourself to other people.
The Speaker of Parliament, Alban S.K Bagbin, has assured the Ghanaian business community that Parliament remains committed to extensively engaging them on proposed amendments to laws that stifle the growth of local businesses.
Be reasonable about what you expect of yourself.
Whereas Member States have pledged themselves to achieve, in co-operation with the United Nations, the promotion of universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms,
“So if you go out there to mine, I cannot guarantee your safety when the soldiers are going to apprehend you.
During the search, the father saw her emerge from the room of the accused crying, with her dress wet and the zip opened.
Before marriage, you might have been accustomed to making unilateral decisions
Narrating the incident to JoyNews, one of the deceased’s co-tenants said the incident which happened around 7:40 pm has brought fear into the house because the headmaster was killed on his own compound.
Additionally, seven units of 10-litre-oxygen concentrators are being presented by the Government of Ghana to India’s Ministry of External Affairs, through the Ghana High Commission in New Delhi.
Some issues may be relatively easy to settle.
The boxes vary in size from small to large.
It can also be one of the most nerve-racking. Do the following scenarios sound familiar?
Certain fats—in the right amount—can lower your risk of heart disease and keep you feeling your best.
For example, imagine that a husband and wife plan a trip and the wife would like to take her parents along.
If you have a deficit, make specific plans to reduce your expenses.
This does not mean that you should criticize your child for every mistake.
It’s not about who’s right and who’s wrong. If your partner is hurt over something, do all you can to make him or her feel better.
The chief enumerated a number of infrastructure projects the MP carried out in the area, including rural electrification, mechanized boreholes, CHPS compounds, school buildings, and a communication tower.
Sometimes humility is misjudged as a weakness. In reality, it is a strength that helps people recognize their faults and acknowledge their limitations.
Chances are, your answer is different from that of your parent.
Medical oxygen becomes essential for treatment of severe COVID-19 patients.
Speaking after Chelsea's 2-0 defeat to Manchester City in the Community Shield, Willian said: "I've always made it very clear that I've always been very excited playing for Chelsea. I never said that I want to leave the club.
Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution.
I am stating categorically that my ambulance number is GV 677-19.
As soon as he finished his work, he went home.
Authorities warn the number could go up
Defence Minister, Dominic Nitiwul has refuted assertions that military officials deployed to stop illegal mining have confiscated gold from galamsey sites.
In the meantime, we want them to suspend the strike,” he stated.
Meanwhile, the old students association are pursuing the Headmistress to render account on some alleged financial malfeasance.
Everyone has the right to recognition everywhere as a person before the law.
As soon as it’s safe in your area, plan a trip with your family, friends, or partner, and enjoy your new experiences!
Still, adolescence is a vital phase of growth. In what way?
We the inhabitants will pay for it.
Put any agreements in writing. Even if your first request is not successful, be willing to persist in asking for an adjustment if necessary.
Children must never be made to feel bad about themselves—or so parents were told.
“What is happening at KATH is an affront on the practice of medical laboratory science in Ghana.
Our company's first priority is meeting our customers' needs.
Under her watch as the Minister of Education in 2015, 23.9% of the students obtained Al to C6 in Maths.
When discussing matters that will affect your marriage partner, (1) explain how you would like to handle the situation, but present your thoughts as suggestions, not final decisions or ultimatums; (2) ask your partner to express his or her opinion, and acknowledge your partner’s right to hold a different viewpoint; and (3) “let your reasonableness become known” by adopting your mate’s preferences whenever possible.
Doing things for others is no guarantee that you will never be lonely.
The country conducted a National Census in 1960, 1970, 1984, 2000, and 2010.
I like that dress better than this one.
Time and time again, we get to witness different regimes of governance after so many years but Ghanaians continue to be served with a high level of ineptitude and multiple cases of abandonment of government projects.
Is she Japanese?
Even if he doesn’t agree with me, he considers my viewpoint.
She might conclude that she has lost her knack, so why try to improve?
But that approach can deprive your body of the very nutrients it needs.
Calls by the Ministry of Health and management of KATH for the scientists to start work for dialogue to begin have yielded no results.
According to the headmistress, she acted in good faith to help the students especially the girls who were wandering in town in search of accommodation.
“One of the things I want to do is to engage civil society to present drafts on the proposed amendments that will better serve the business community.
Upon consultations, government has assured us that it will continue with efforts to prevent a steep rise in input cost.
If you travel with your partner, you will quickly learn how you each communicate and how you can improve your relationship.
The Supreme Court has rejected a ¢1.27 billion judgment debt claim from the state by NDK Financial Services.
He makes a bad impression.
You don’t have to agree with everything your partner says or believes, but you have to be honestly open to considering his or her position
I thought you said you never went out drinking.
Those parents believed that the secret to building self-esteem was to ignore the bad and praise everything else.
Stepfamilies face unique and often challenging relationships with those outside their household
How? The secret is in the lizard’s tail.
What's a picture like that doing in Gloria's room?
There has been a penchant for the total disregard for uncompleted projects in this country and we have seen too many of these.
“It is also to ensure how to control the anopheles mosquito in limiting the number of vectors.”
"Without doubt, we all like this style of play, all the players," he added. "We have to do all we can to keep improving.
Everyone gets lonely at times; it’s just a matter of degree. And while loneliness can be a devastating feeling, in the end it’s just that​—a feeling.
Whereas it is essential to promote the development of friendly relations between nations,
Members of the Chapter have declared an indefinite strike starting Thursday, 27th May, 2021, over the move, after they started with a one-week sit-down strike.
An Economist at the University of Ghana Business School, Dr Lord Mensah, says Ghana’s economy has been in distress since 2017 adding that the government must reduce its appetite for borrowing from the local market.
“Globally, activities around mining in general are risky but the level of risk exposure doubles when the operation is underground. It is against this backdrop that the industry is heavily regulated in terms of occupational health and safety standards and best practices”, it said.
People speak so much about the need for leaving a better planet for our children, and forget the urgency of leaving better children for our planet.
In January 2021, Ghana government rejected the decision by British Airways to switch the London-Accra-London route from Heathrow to Gatwick Airport.
Waiting to date won’t stifle your freedom. On the contrary, it will give you more freedom to ‘rejoice in your youth.
It follows a bloody eight-month battle between the Ethiopian army and the Tigray People Liberation Front (TPLF) for control of the Tigray region.
However, in midair, they correct the angle of their body by flicking their tail upward.
Following the drastic surge of Covid-19 cases in India this month, some Ghanaians, have in a kind gesture of brotherliness, provided a donation of 150 medical grade oxygen concentrators to needy hospitals in that country.
The meeting will seek to find an amicable solution to the stand-off over the posting of two hematologists to the laboratory service department of the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital.
You’re not listening to me!” your partner says. ‘But I was,’ you tell yourself. Evidently, though, what you heard is different from what your partner said. As a result, another argument erupts.
The Ghana Armed Forces (GAF) has expressed concern about the high number of excavators parked in mining communities.
Meanwhile, the suspect, James has been arraigned before court for prosecution.
The Ashanti Regional Police Command says the 43-year-old man who was killed during a robbery incident at Buokrom Estate in Kumasi has died.
A troubled resident who was speaking to City News said “almost every week there are arme3d robbers patrolling all over this place”.
Everyone has the right to a nationality.
Try to minimize changes, especially to their old rooms.
He will be very busy next month.
This intervention, he further took notice, will help decrease the number of malaria cases, “we see at a particular time or in a month.”
Rasoarimanana has also become an appreciated chef in the family, especially for her delicious vegetable recipes.
She had nothing to do with the case.
Several officers at the Minerals Commission of Ghana have been transferred or reassigned to various regional and district offices across the country.
He's used to speaking in public.
Miss Tieku revealed that the NGO is working assiduously in educating girls on how to prepare for menstruation, how to go through menstrual hygiene and how to properly dispose off the waste.
The father, according to the prosecution, asked his wife to check what was wrong with the victim, and she confirmed that her daughter was bleeding and also smelled of Robb ointment in her private parts.
There was a minute's silence and sirens sounded across the country.
It is interesting to note that she does not put out any details of the alleged meeting.”
Surface dressed cost $300,000- $9000,000 per km (depending on the number of seals and base material).
The contractor also bemoaned the challenge with political contractors in the construction chain.
President Nana Akufo-Addo has already pledged the services of Ghanaian doctors and nurses to India should they be needed at any time.
Travel reduces stress
Many people open their shops and wait for customers to come and buy.
The second phase of Togo COVID-19 vaccination exercise has started across the country but with incidents of undue delays at various centers.
Recently, the Defence Minister, Dominic Nitiwul, warned illegal miners working at night that they do so at their own risk.
Clearly, when you date someone, you’re affecting that person’s feelings.
It also risks negating the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals.
He kept badgering her until she told him what he wanted to know.
We all look forward to escaping our boring lives and traveling to new, exciting places – and with the Covid-19 vaccine, we finally can.
If you start with harsh words, the chances of reaching a peaceful compromise are slim.
In all, there are 39 deputy ministers appointed under 24 portfolios and one Minister of State.
On Sunday, the 84-year-old conducted his weekly Angelus prayer from hospital -- appearing publicly for the first time since his surgery a week earlier.
“The problem we have in this country sadly is that our medical laboratory scientists do not appreciate their limitation. Two hematologists- where should they go and practice?
The earthquake was the greatest disaster the country had ever experienced.
The appointment was however challenged by a section of the feuding faction in the troubled country.
The vaccination exercise is scheduled to take place from the 31st of May to 8th of June 2021.
It said the team arrived at Asankragua and proceeded to Resort Holyday Hotel and Xin Di Hotel and picked up them.
Both of you could compromise.
The panelists who commended the Central Banks move of merging five insolvent Banks said it is an innovative and efficient intervention.
The shake-up is part of ongoing reforms to decentralize the licensing regime and enhance monitoring of mining operations.
“I will get the relevant committees to have a look at the specific laws in question and work with you to address the concerns,” he added.
First, we received training in agriculture.
Everyone has the right to a nationality.
I had extremes of very-high-calorie binge days and very-low-calorie strict days. Finally, I decided to stop counting calories, to be careful not to overeat, and to stop eating when I was full. It took time, but now I have a balanced diet.”
The ceremony took place at the Academic Enclave near the University of Ghana Business School.
The President of PEF, Nana Osei Bonsu, who led the delegation, said it was time for the legislature to create a periodic dialogue platform where issues affecting the private sector could be discussed with members of the House.
He, however, indicated that government will remain focused on delivering on its mandate and will not be intimidated.
The timing for finding a viable solution is driven by the goodwill of the parties to share data and cooperate”,
So, let us be up and doing. Let us put our shoulders to the wheel so that future generations will appreciate our contribution to the making of a successful, democratic Ghana, which guarantees the liberties of our people, the institutions of good governance, the cohesion of our society, the well-being of the masses, and the peace, prosperity and unity of our nation.”
Sorry, that's a typo.
Do not say everything that you think or feel, even if you are mistreated.
In a post on social media, President Akufo-Addo said:
“I express the deep condolences of the government and people of Ghana and of myself personally to President Buhari and the government and the people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on the shocking, tragic deaths of Nigeria’s Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru.”
Lake Titicaca, the biggest lake in South America, is in Peru.
Unhealthy youths often become unhealthy adults, so it’s good for you to develop healthy eating habits now.
I had to change clothes because what I was wearing wasn't appropriate for the situation.
Some youths are targeted by bullies because of their appearance, race, or religion or even because they have a disability​—anything the bully can pick on.
We would try to make up for it, but sometimes we could not afford to.
The military returned Monday, May 17, 2021, at about 4:00 pm to burn a faulty bulldozer that escaped their notice and large water pumping machines.
How can you control your anger in explosive situations?
“We see this cashless society in its infancy in developing countries, and we are most likely to copy that
In this piece, correspondent Emmanuel Mensah-Abludo says the students at the Wa campus are pursuing their courses at the Faculty of Integrated Development Studies, School of Business and Law as well as the Faculty of Planning and Land Management.
This means that between 13 to 16 sanitary pads may be needed per year.
He was addressing concerns raised by the Federation on some compelling issues affecting the growth of the private sector, including laws relating to taxes.
“There are many mines that are operating and for years, they tell us they have not made any profit so they cannot pay any dividend to government. But they keep mining and mining. How can you as a business continue to be in existence for so long and claim you are not making profit and so you cannot pay. There are some mines that are paying, but many are not paying sufficiently, relative to how much they are taking out of our country.”
Chief Technology Officer of IT Consortium, EbowAnamoah-Mensah, has said, although Ghana is gradually becoming a “commonplace” for cashless transactions, it requires a few more years for it to be nationally adapted.
He concluded saying “the covid-19 pandemic was a real test and I’m excited to say the bank really excelled in terms of using the digital platforms.
The Headmistress also said the students bed were the excess beds which were packed under the mercy of the weather.
Before marriage, you might have been accustomed to making unilateral decisions
It said visits by military personnel tasked to stop illegal mining activities, had shown that “there were still some illegal mining activities going on in some of the areas that had hitherto been cleared by Operation Halt II”.
Both of you could compromise.
You are always late. You look worn out.
The ideas of two people combined can lead to a solution that is better than what each one could come up with alone
As a matter of fact, if the policy rate can go down even further it will be awesome
Also, he says these suspects have been picked up in relation to other related robberies in the region.
The deceased’s father reported to police that a day before his daughter’s demise, she complained to him that she was severely assaulted by her husband, and that had led to the death of her daughter.
Surface dressed cost $300,000- $9000,000 per km (depending on the number of seals and base material).
The South Tongu District Director of Agriculture, Ernest Quansah, has appealed on government to urgently
ban the reckless acquisition of lands along river banks by private investors.
Likewise, you should expect to make some embarrassing mistakes as you gain experience in marriage.
Medical oxygen becomes essential for treatment of severe COVID-19 patients.
“We have a regime that we are implementing for the oil sector, and we want to implement the same
regime for the mining sector.
I saw that film, but it wasn't very good.
Do I let my children know that at times I also need help from others?
The river is mainly polluted by waste from houses and factories.
I don't think I'll have enough time to do everything I want to do.
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property.
Discuss with him what he can do to help them. Commend and support your child as he serves others.
Mr. Amar Deep S. Hari, the Chief Executive Officer of IPMC, who commissioned the items, on a virtual platform for distribution from India’s famous mosque, Dargah Nizamuddin in New Delhi, India, expressed his gratitude to Ghanaians for this assistance.
He likes to read newspapers.
Also, I don’t think it’s wrong occasionally to have a candy bar or eat fast food. But that shouldn’t be all a person’s diet consists of.
When you feel stressed or “down,” traveling can make you happier and help you improve your life in so many ways.
This intervention, he further took notice, will help decrease the number of malaria cases, “we see at a particular time or in a month.”
The ‘Huawei Day with the Media’ was organized by Huawei Ghana as part of efforts to engage the media, strengthen relationships, and share the company’s contributions towards building a digital economy while giving the media the opportunity to better understand operations on Huawei in Ghana.
There's been a lot of rain this year.
What was meant to be a romantic date turned ugly,” the DCI said, posting on Twitter bizarre photos of items allegedly linked to witchcraft recovered from Mr Anane’s house during a raid
Miss Tieku describing the situation as worrying, said the misconceptions surrounding menstruation have resulted in most women developing low self esteem.
Depending on your family or cultural background, you might be in the habit of expressing your opinion firmly, even bluntly.
A development which led to the Acting Director and Management of the School taking a cue from the double-track system initiated in our Senior High Schools, to introduce a triple-track system,” he added.
He expects everyone to treat him as special.
I wonder if he can live on such a small salary.
he added such projects have given Tinjase town and surrounding communities a facelift.
She made this call on the sidelines of a relationship seminar organized by the Students Chaplaincy Council of the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Obuasi campus, where she was a Guest speaker.
However, the Defence Minister, Dominic Nitiwul, has explained that licensed mining companies will be treated as illegal miners if their activities pollute water bodies.
The facts, as presented by the prosecutor, Chief Inspector Kofi Atimbire, were that on April 16, 2018, around 7: 30 p.m, the victim’s parents started looking for her when it dawned on them that she was not around, and nobody knew her whereabouts.
Waiting to date won’t stifle your freedom. On the contrary, it will give you more freedom to ‘rejoice in your youth.
The timing for finding a viable solution is driven by the goodwill of the parties to share data and cooperate”,
One other staff who sensed danger when the two men stepped into the premises, dashed to the washroom to place a phone call to a neighbour, Collins Dapaah, for help.
I don't think you fully understand the consequences.
He gave me his stamp of approval.
the reports indicated that Jay Dordorye, [26 years] the boyfriend of the deceased, reportedly inflicted knife wounds on Harriet Kafui Ahiati (deceased) and attempted to commit suicide.
“Many young ones who date break up with each other a week or two later,” says a girl named Ama.
“The law says a foreigner cannot do retail except Ghanaians but foreigners are doing retail in our markets and so we will do well to close their shops.
Sharing a typical example, Abena Buachiwaa took notice that she was recently overwhelmed with work and at the time her daughter was also not feeling well and had to make a choice between the two.
Use public transportation, or walk whenever you can.
The government of Ghana has thus been aggressively promoting a digital and cash-lite economy.
Suppose your daughter has a knack for drawing. Naturally, you want to praise her for this, which will motivate her to hone her skill even more.
Indulging a child’s every wish can cause him to feel entitled.
The group said the invasion of foreigners in retail business is collapsing their businesses.
This timely intervention by MASLOC was a brilliant concept meant to support the operations of MASLOC by processing loan disbursement digitally, increase access to their products and services, reduce the human interface in their operations and increase efficiency through enhanced performance.
You could get into the Guinness Book of World Records as the heaviest drinker.
The Bank of Ghana on Wednesday announced it has taken over Beige, Sovereign, Royal, Unibank and Construction banks and merged them into the Consolidated Bank Ghana Limited.
Teach your children that there is value in serving others.
An Economist at the University of Ghana Business School, Dr Lord Mensah, says Ghana’s economy has been in distress since 2017 adding that the government must reduce its appetite for borrowing from the local market.
Asamoah spent most days begging for money in front of tourist attractions.
All of this requires humility.
In the previous year was a period of economic uncertainty.
I have difficulty concentrating.
The new programme creates a calendar of two semesters in a year for the SHS 1 class, containing 81 days per each semester and 41 days of vacation for a sandwich class.
Kwabena chanced upon some skeletons in the cupboard when he was researching his family history.
Prior to the second wave of COVID-19, Ghana had become one of the first recipients of the Indian manufactured COVID-19 vaccines under WHO’s Covax program.
With your mate, set aside time to discuss the suggestions under this subheading. Ask your partner: “When I talk about you in public, do you feel honored or put down? What adjustments can I make to improve?”
The Rastafarian students, Tyrone IrasMarhguy and Oheneba Kwaku Nkrabea dragged the Achimota School Board of Governors, the Minister of Education, Ghana Education Service, and the Attorney General to court for refusing to enrol them.
A child who is raised to embrace that principle is more likely to realize that everyone is superior to him in one way or another.
Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each state.
Speaking to Citi News, the National President of the group, Zakariah Mohammed, says the government has failed to adequately address their concerns.
These are allied health professionals.
“One of the things I want to do is to engage civil society to present drafts on the proposed amendments that will better serve the business community.
At the added meeting, the BA team promised to provide further information and data analysis to support it reason for the changes of its services from London-Heathrow-Airport to London-Gatwick-Airport and to enable the Government of Ghana to take a final position on the matter.
Bullies want to know that they’ve succeeded in making you feel bad about yourself
But before considering how to compromise, there are a few things you should know about this vital skill.
He was addressing concerns raised by the Federation on some compelling issues affecting the growth of the private sector, including laws relating to taxes.
“For example, you may have a very big water body like a lake that we cannot readily drain or even a marshy area that serves as a source or breeding site for mosquitoes,” he added.
Everybody in the car said they wanted to get out and stretch their legs.
The Zoomlion General Manager for Ashanti East, Franklin Ofori Akuffo, indicated that LSM was one of the best interventions in the control of malaria.
She had borrowed the money to pay for her children’s medical treatment
What exactly is dating?
Others are convinced that they are special and deserve to be treated that way—and then they become dejected when they realize that the world does not share their view.
She knelt beside him and asked him what his name was.
According to the police, the suspect, James Atobi Asante, started dating the victim’s mother some
three years ago when her father died under mysterious circumstances.
One approach is to pay toward debt with the highest interest rate first.
I have been hearing people forcing the Armed Forces to accept that they have seized things that they have not seized.
Kwaku asked Abena what kind of movies she liked.
In the Upper West Region, the Wa Municipality has the highest coverage of 71 % in terms of active members as at June 2018 whilst Wa East District has the lowest of 32%.
But I think we are on the right track, I think we are well pluck into the journey; we have invested in automating our front office, we invested heavily in our back house, we’ve tried to develop digital platforms to our customers so they can work from home, our customers can access the bank from anywhere.”
The Vice President assured the investor community that while Government welcomes all foreign direct
investment, such investment would have to be a partnership that was beneficial to all parties.
In fact, we work with retailors on several things to make pricing very creative because most retailors, the reason some items are expensive is because, the thing doesn’t move as often as it should.
The Vice Chancellor expressed the sentiments in a speech read for him by the Principal of the Wa Campus of UDS, Prof. Sylvester Z. Galaa at the matriculation of graduate students pursuing sandwich programs in Wa.
Moderation is always a good rule to follow
The Roads and Highways Minister said that President Akufo-Addo’s second term is projecting to complete 6,000 kilometers out of 11,000 kilometers of roads.
Government’s commitment to leaving a lasting legacy in professional legal education in Ghana is absolute,” he added.
I don't feel well today so put down your pencil.
“The mine rescue teams have been working tirelessly in difficult geotechnical conditions in the immediate area, to locate our missing colleague”, AngloGold Ashanti said.
Many scientists have the reputation of being eccentric.
Loneliness is, above all else, a mind-set. “It comes from inside a person, not from outside
By the time you will come in the next morning, you will realize that almost all of your goods are gone.
The Minerals Commission in a statement indicated that it visited the site around 11:00 a.m on the day of the incident, and that its Inspectorate Division has commenced full investigations into it.
Speaking to Kasapa FM’s Central Regional Correspondent Yaw Boagyan, he added that their members of the association are furious and becoming impatient towards the continuous invasion of foreigners in the retail business.
With the Ghana School of Law being the nation’s sole institution responsible for professional legal education, and for training eligible persons as lawyers and integrating them into the legal system, President Akufo-Addo expressed his delight about the project taking place under his Presidency.
Be sure to put out the fire before you leave.
Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person.
The closed banks were said to be facing liquidity challenges. Earlier this year, UT Bank and Capital Bank also faced the same liquidation problem.
Who's that boy standing at the door?
I found out where she was.
Think of your partner as your teammate rather than an opponent
The ruling that went against the school authorities delivered by Justice Gifty Agyei was received with displeasure, triggering measures to appeal the verdict, per a June 1 communiqué.
I think I still have time for another cup of coffee.
he added the primary purpose of the training was to help participants to know the concepts and definitions of the Census, as well as their duties and responsibilities as field officers for the enumeration.
“The NDC will always remain the party of the people.
They have developinnovations and they have done quite a lot in terms of that.
There are many department stores and supermarkets in Shinjuku.
Speaking at the signing ceremony, President Akufo-Addo took notice that “the Development Bank Ghana is going to play a very important part in the rapid economic transformation of Ghana, following the onset of COVID-19.”
The deceased’s father reported to police that a day before his daughter’s demise, she complained to him that she was severely assaulted by her husband, and that had led to the death of her daughter.
On Twitter, President Buhari said the crash was a “mortal blow… at a time our armed forces are poised to end the security challenges facing the country”.
According to him, no such meeting has taken place between him and anyone on the subject matter.
For example, suppose a husband makes weekend plans without consulting his wife.
“I, thus, consider it necessary to put out this statement because the allegations made in the audio recording have no iota of truth, are pure fabrications, and are malicious, with the sole aim of courting public disaffection for me as a senior official of this government.”
Also, he says these suspects have been picked up in relation to other related robberies in the region.
He drives a pink Cadillac.
These are the three focal areas our strategy is built on
The South Tongu District Director of Agriculture, Ernest Quansah, has appealed on government to urgently
ban the reckless acquisition of lands along river banks by private investors.
Now things have changed, and both you and your partner must put your marriage above your personal preferences.
“This is the President of the Republic.
By contrast, many other parents are training their children to put others before self, and with great benefits.
The hospital staff reported late to their duty
Even some parents may unwittingly sow the seeds of a me-first spirit.
The President is being accused of impunity for trying hard to enforce rules that people routinely ignore.
Tickets are valid for just two days, including the day they are purchased on.
Cyberbullying also includes sending harmful photos or text messages using a cell phone.
The ideas of two people combined can lead to a solution that is better than what each one could come up with alone
This excludes engineers at the District Assemblies.
Several times a day, you send text messages or talk to this person on the phone. Are you dating?
“Whether teachers, doctors, students, drivers, businessmen and women or government employees – each of them contributed to the best of their abilities,” one of them told the Ghana News Agency.
So be sure your intentions are honorable
For a month, keep track of your eating habits. How often do you go to one of the extremes described above? What adjustments can you make to have a balanced diet?
So when a disagreement arises, they dig in their heels, wondering just how their “perfect match” could possibly see things from a different point of view.
Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children.
Our nation has had a lot of difficulties with our politics and governance structures, but for the past 25 years we have had a stable political system. We have had regular elections and sitting governments have been defeated, and there have been peaceful transfers of power.
But then your partner senses that something is wrong and begins to probe.
Ten other officers, including the plane’s crew, also died.
The Speaker of Parliament, Alban S.K Bagbin, has assured the Ghanaian business community that Parliament remains committed to extensively engaging them on proposed amendments to laws that stifle the growth of local businesses.
Abena Buachiwaa, who balanced her career and tried to move up the organisational ladder as quickly as possible added, “I did all this having a stable relationship, getting married, having kids and training my kids.
Prior to the second wave of COVID-19, Ghana had become one of the first recipients of the Indian manufactured COVID-19 vaccines under WHO’s Covax program.
You shouldn't say such a thing in the presence of children.
This is what he added in September 2018 to the Ghana Bar Association gathered in conference;
Witnesses say, Sampson Ataafi, upon realizing that his girlfriend was in the new boyfriend’s room, opened fire on the lady through a trap door.
Additionally, he expressed appreciation to the MP for understanding a number of infrastructure projects in the town.
Sometimes when you’re lonely you keep checking your phone to see if any of your friends have sent you a message. And when you’re already feeling lonely and you notice that no one has tried to contact you, that can make you feel even worse
So, for example, if your child wants something you cannot afford, explain why it is necessary to live within a budget.
Whereas it is essential to promote the development of friendly relations between nations,
Phase One of the project complementing the facilities of the Accra Main Campus located at Makola, at a cost of US$4 million).
he added issues affecting the private sector, including shortcomings in the tax collection system and general misunderstanding of the tax laws in the business community, must be addressed by Parliament.
The Domestic Violence and Victim Support Unit (DOVVSU) of the Kasoa Divisional Police Command, has
picked up a 52-year-old man for allegedly defiling his 10-year-old step-daughter at Kakraba in the Central
Region.
It's impossible.
Dr. Bossman Asare in an interview gave assurance that transparent elections would be conducted in the country to ensure that those that are voted for are those who get the lead..
“The mine rescue teams have been working tirelessly in difficult geotechnical conditions in the immediate area, to locate our missing colleague”, AngloGold Ashanti said.
An oxygen concentrator is a device that concentrates the oxygen from a gas supply by selectively removing nitrogen to supply oxygen-enriched gas stream.
In essence, that is what your son or daughter is doing during the teen years​—shedding the traits of childhood and learning to become a responsible young adult who is self-reliant and mature enough to leave home.
Rationalizing your behavior is not the same as apologizing for it.
Mr Amoako-Attah indicated that the government is seriously constructing and fixing deplorable roads across the country.
The media ought not to appear to be a den of impunity. Indeed, no institution of state ought to be above lawful enquiry, as Rule of Law demands.
“I wish to put on record that I have never met this unnamed, unidentified woman or the elders and the chiefs she claims she brought to meet with me.
This is happening few months after a 53-year-old man was killed and killed in the same community during a disagreement over palm wine.
The crash comes three months to the day after a Kenyan military plane crashed short of a runway in the capital Nairobi killing all seven people on board.
GTC’s partnership with GIZ is to provide a huge opportunity for the country to leap frog in the provision of efficient public services such as health, education, revenue generation, creation of new jobs for the growing unemployed youth, protection of human rights and freedoms.
On his part, the Chief Executive Officer of the Ghana Chamber of Technology and an ICT Policy and Strategy Specialist and Consultant, Mr. Derrydean Dadzie, was particularly impressed with the Huawei Seeds for the Future Program.
With your mate, set aside time to discuss the suggestions under this subheading. Ask your partner: “When I talk about you in public, do you feel honored or put down? What adjustments can I make to improve?”
They talk a lot, particularly at mealtimes. And when my husband cooks, he uses the same cloth to dry the dishes and to clean his hands!
His explanation that a solution would take time didn't satisfy anyone.
The Roads and Highway Ministry has refuted claims that road construction under the Akufo-Addo administration cost $2 million per kilometre
It appears a very critical technological intervention, an integrated ICT System which was unveiled by the Microfinance and Small Loans Centre (MASLOC) exactly a year ago has not seen the light of day.
I’m beginning to be convinced there is some kind of cartel arrangement between the banks because this shouldn’t be happening in a very competitive environment.”
In an interview with Starr News, Chief Revenue Officer of the Debt Management Unit of the GRA Nathaniel Nii Okai Tetteh said companies who are still facing regulatory sanctions have been given a window to redeem themselves.
Loneliness can stem from insecurities. It’s hard to reach out and be open to friendships when you don’t feel that you are worth another person’s interest
Tickets are valid for just two days, including the day they are purchased on.
According to President Akufo-Addo, the double track system will not be applicable in all Senior High Schools but in schools facing infrastructure challenges due to a large number of students admitted under the free SHS programme.
I hear a gentleman was picked up some few days ago at Jubilee House; named Damoah.
The Chief Executive Officer of Hubtel limited, Alex Bram was speaking to Peace news on the side of the opening of the company’s office in Kumasi.
What made you laugh? What qualities drew you to each other?
Making children feel good about themselves became more important than teaching them to accomplish things that they could actually feel good about.
Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal, in the determination of his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him.
How to Promote Peace in the Family
The fact is that I can't swim.
I can't see anything because the whole place is dark.
If you have to cancel an outing or a vacation, you could explain that disappointments are part of life and perhaps discuss how you deal with such disappointments.
Berekum Chelsea were victorious against Bofoakwa FC, beating them 2-1.
Ashanti Gold beat fellow Premier League side King Faisal by a sole goal scored by Gordon K Brokelyn at the Ohene Ameyaw park.
Due to this, some teachers in the school as well as the headmistress have rented private apartments and converted them into private hostels to accommodate the students.
Speaking to Kasapa FM’s Central Regional Correspondent Yaw Boagyan, he added that their members of the association are furious and becoming impatient towards the continuous invasion of foreigners in the retail business.
Do my children see that I value serving others?
That’s what marriage should be about—give and take, not just take.
He was, however, quick to add that there are a lot of serious minded supervisors in the university community and urged them to keep up.
Encourage your child to apologize quickly.
Also, in November 2020, an illegal small-scale mining pit in the outskirts of Ayanfuri collapsed and trapped eight persons between the ages of 24 and 35 years.
Hubtel can make it possible for people to make order online using the Hubtel app on their phones and we will deliver the items to the person.”
Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children.
There are 2,586,782 confirmed active cases in the country, according to the health ministry.
When your son was younger, he was like a boat tied to a dock​—you. Now as a teenager, he is tugging at the rope, eager to set sail, and you get the impression that you are not invited on board.
Kwaku has a Canadian wife.
The Ambulance Service consequently dispatched some officers to look into the matter.
At a press briefing in Accra on Wednesday, Dominic Nitiwul said the military has been equipped to deal with such recalcitrant miners.
You and your partner have different preferences on something. Realistically, you have at least three options
The state is enforcing through burning because it must necessarily do so if it is to turn the tide in the short term whilst strengthening traditional regulatory measures in the medium to long term.
The school subsequently made efforts to secure a stay of execution order to freeze the implementation of the order but it has now announced that it was withdrawn that decision.
James is having a hard time deciding what to wear to the party.
he added when all stakeholders contribute their quota to improve teaching and learning environment in schools, pupils would perform better.
According to the police, the suspect, James Atobi Asante, started dating the victim’s mother some
three years ago when her father died under mysterious circumstances.
If you have a deficit, make specific plans to reduce your expenses.
DOMESTIC cats are mostly nocturnal. Whiskers apparently help them to identify nearby objects and catch prey, particularly after dusk.
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation.
If you want me to go, I'll go.
So explain to your child that boasting makes him look bad and that it could set him up for embarrassment.
The military also assaulted security men on duty.
His hospital has benefitted from 10 units of the Oxygen concentrators.
President Akufo-Addo reiterated that the provision of this facility signals the determination of Ghana to continue partnering with the EU, with the President informing Dr. Hoyer that Ghana will fall on the EIB to continue to finance other projects in the pipeline, as the country works to recover from the impact of COVID-19.
Sheldon wasn't excited.
May I, Mr. Speaker, serve a warning that in accordance with the ruling J.H. Mensah vs Attorney General, they will be in a hurry at their own peril because they must respect the provisions of the Constitution.”
Mr. Amar Deep S. Hari, the Chief Executive Officer of IPMC, who commissioned the items, on a virtual platform for distribution from India’s famous mosque, Dargah Nizamuddin in New Delhi, India, expressed his gratitude to Ghanaians for this assistance.
Both partners should feel that they have been heard and have had a part in the decision-making process.
Men and women communicate differently, and they have unique needs. A woman may long to share her feelings openly and often. Many men, on the other hand, try to preserve peace by solving problems quickly and avoiding thorny issues.
“She does not state the date of the meeting, the place where the meeting took place, and the names of the elders and chiefs who accompanied her to the alleged meeting.
They could even become easy targets for manipulators, thinking that such relationships are normal and that they shouldn’t expect anything better.
You don’t have to agree with everything your partner says or believes, but you have to be honestly open to considering his or her position
For instance, when one is looking for food, he can say, can you get me that fufu from Patasi?
I went on reading.
Speaking to Citi News, the National Public Relations Officer of the Association, Dennis Adu-Gyasi, said the decision was taken at an emergency meeting with its members.
Speaking after Chelsea's 2-0 defeat to Manchester City in the Community Shield, Willian said: "I've always made it very clear that I've always been very excited playing for Chelsea. I never said that I want to leave the club.
You and a member of the opposite sex are attracted to each other.
Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children.
But serious errors should be corrected.
Officials of the Self-Love chanced uponation thus donated about 1000 menstrual caps to students in the municipality.
Interpreting this as criticism, you say: “It’s not my fault! I have to work extra hours because you are running up our bills.
As per data available from the Ghana Health Service, it appears that, unfortunately, our nation is experiencing a third wave of COVID-19 infections.
The thief used a screwdriver to break into the car.
An unknown woman in an audio circulating on social media claims to have picked some information that the President had plans to sell Gimpa.
All your friends are there, and they’re obviously having a great time. But something is missing. More specifically, someone is missing​—you!
The earthquake was the greatest disaster the country had ever experienced.
State capacity, reflected in its footprint in terms of mining regulations management and enforcement, reach of courts, policing, advocacy and self-restraint through representative associations, have fallen short of curbing the menace.
Kwaku was playing in the backyard.
To prepare your adolescent for adulthood, you need to help him develop his “power of reason” so that he will be able to make sound decisions on his own.
Do my children see that I value serving others?
He was speaking on the topic‘Cashless Economy with Opportunities in Business and Commerce‘.
‘Necessity’is a legal construct which presumes acting beyond existing law in the interest of protecting a larger public interest. Glanville Williams says;
The suspect masquerades as a preacher, approaches innocent women looking for love and affection online, with promises of making their lives better before fraudulently obtaining money from them.”
She added Africans have the expertise, the best weather and content creators, hence the only thing left are investors to fund projects.
Add to this record expenses such as taxes, insurance, or clothing, which may occur much less frequently, and use monthly averages for them
Are you afraid of me?
Children who are considerate are more likely to make friends and to enjoy stable relationships.
Speaking at an interactive session with the Parliamentary Press Corps on Wednesday, Mr Iddrisu observed that several other government officials are engaged in the illegal business since their party is in office.
And how what you have learnt in the classroom [during the Seeds Program] can be applied to solve the problem?
It's no use confessing your sins to the priest if you don't think twice before repeating them.
‘What has got into him?’ you wonder. ‘I want him to feel good about himself​—but not to think that he is better than everyone else!’
Many young adults entering the workforce seem ill-prepared to cope with adversity.
The Chief Director’s clarification was necessitated by reactions that followed Road Minister, Kwesi Amoako-Atta’s press briefing which focused on road projects being undertaken by the government.
Dozens of miners are reported trapped in the illegal mining pit.
In recent decades, parents have been encouraged to yield to their children’s desires; to praise them generously, even if they did nothing praiseworthy; to withhold correction and discipline.
The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection by society and the State.
Kofi Eshun has rejected outrightly all the claims by the unidentified woman. According to him, those allegations are “outright and blatant lies.”
Yet, the crocodile’s jaw is also incredibly sensitive to touch​—even more sensitive than the human fingertip.
A HORSE can gallop at a speed of up to 30 miles per hour (50 km/​h).
I bear no grudge against you.
“By necessity is meant the assertion that conduct promotes some value higher than the value of literal compliance with the law”
You very nearly guessed it.
It said visits by military personnel tasked to stop illegal mining activities, had shown that “there were still some illegal mining activities going on in some of the areas that had hitherto been cleared by Operation Halt II”.
No one may be compelled to belong to an association.
If you discover new interests when you’re away from home or realize that you need to make some life changes, you’ll feel motivated to build a better life when you arrive home.
Ghana’s population has since moved from 6.7 million in 1960 to 24.6 million in 2010, and currently estimated at 30 million.
The Chief of Tinjase, Ubor Mamunin II, lauded Mr. Bless for initiating the school projects.
You could also consider moving to a new residence.
Ashanti Gold beat fellow Premier League side King Faisal by a sole goal scored by Gordon K Brokelyn at the Ohene Ameyaw park.
The complaint has also featured prominently lately in the the reports of external examiners.
My business collapsed during the Greek financial crisis, so we could no longer keep up with our mortgage and credit-card payments. I couldn’t sleep because of the stress
Humility helps relationships
She claimed, the feeding fees collected from the students were given to the matron of the school to buy food items to cook for the students in her private hostel.
“So we are praying to the government to come to our aid”
Kwabena doesn't understand what you're talking about.
WAFA dismantled Akatsi All Stars 4-0 with goals coming from Sampson Agyapong, Marvin Owusu, Basit Issah and Emmanuel Agyemang.
Otherwise, you may end up debating over what was said instead of focusing on what was meant.
Meanwhile, the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists has announced that the strike would be escalated nationwide from Wednesday, May 26, 2021.
We should sing together again sometime.
Visiting new places can be very exciting, but it can also be a bit intimidating, which takes you out of your comfort zone and forces you to try new things.
Dr. Adjei made the statement while speaking to journalists at the end of a one-day LSM training session held for health workers in Kumasi in the Ashanti Region, on Friday, May 21, 2021.
Clearly, when you date someone, you’re affecting that person’s feelings.
The woman only became suspicious of Mr Anane when she visited his house in the capital, Nairobi, the police said.
Remind your child that everyone is superior to him in one way or another and that instead of being jealous of others’ skills and abilities, he can learn from them.
In view of that, the Road Ministry’s Chief Director has called on the citizenry to be supportive as well as hold the government accountable for the comprehensive development of the road and highways sector.
On the other hand, you can change the direction of a heated discussion.
Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust, non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty.
Both Madam Tsey and Mr.Dadzie, made this known during the maiden edition of the ‘Huawei Day with Media’ which was held in Accra.
It’s similar with dating.
Later, when you meet the right person, you’ll be in a better position to build a solid relationship.
Communicating about money will help to maintain peace in your marriage.
My sister works at the United States Embassy in London.
The Headmistress furnished her private hostel with students beds meant for the school.
he added such projects have given Tinjase town and surrounding communities a facelift.
Luxembourg, Austria, Switzerland, France, and the Netherlands have also been affected by the extreme rainfall but have not reported any fatalities.
Do you have any idea how lucky you've been?
The first edition of the ‘Huawei Day with the Media’ also included a virtual tour of the company’s ultramodern Darwin Exhibition Centre in Shenzhen, China, where participants were informed about how Huawei is employing advanced technology to make the world a better place through initiatives such as the Huawei #TECH4ALL, as well as the company’s contribution towards the combat against the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic.
But before considering how to compromise, there are a few things you should know about this vital skill.
Kwabena knew it was too late to call, but he called anyway.
You can feel the worst kind of loneliness when you’re surrounded by friends but they don’t seem to love you back or need you.
The ideas of two people combined can lead to a solution that is better than what each one could come up with alone
As a trade union organization that has for 75 years sought the protection and welfare of workers in the industry, it said it takes an uncompromising opposition to these worrying and preventable fatalities that are shedding the blood of innocent workers in atonement for the profiteering motives of these multinational corporations.
Division One side Tema Youth thrashed Inter Allies beating the Premier League side 5-1.
“I wish to put on record that I have never met this unnamed, unidentified woman or the elders and the chiefs she claims she brought to meet with me.
In recent decades, many parents have felt compelled to protect their children from any type of adversity.
Explain how hurt the children will be if they are passed over when it comes to attention and other kindnesses.
A child who learns to perform humble tasks at home is more likely to work well with others as an adult
So, let us be up and doing.
…I invite you to see and appreciate that many of the problems that plague our country have something to do with the mal-functioning of the law.
The two have been remanded by the court, whereas a third suspect, Alhaji Aminu Ayuba, the Yepalisi Chief, has been granted a police enquiry bail of GHS 200,000 and will reappear on May 31, 2021.
You and your partner have different preferences on something. Realistically, you have at least three options
“When completed, these facilities will help to decongest the high number of pupils in the classrooms, promote reading culture among pupils and also provide comfort for teachers who sit under trees to mark scripts,” he added.
You're aiming too low to hit the target.
Dozens of miners are reported trapped in the illegal mining pit.
He has thus advised Ghanaians to embrace this measure when its implementation begins.
For example, some partners divorce simply because one partner feels that he or she “deserves better.
Rescue services have continued to comb through towns ravaged by the floods in search for potential survivors.
Parents teach their children that it's wrong to lie.
Can you tell me why Kwabena is doing that?
The Headmistress furnished her private hostel with students beds meant for the school.
The facts, as narrated by prosecution, are that Intelligence Agencies picked up information sometime in April, this year, that the accused persons, armed with weapons, were illegally mining at Asankragua in the Western Region.
Can you tell me why Kwabena is doing that?
According to him, all other contrary claims are not true and should be disregarded.
The storm reduced intensity as it continued north over the weekend, eventually reaching Tokyo by Monday, October 1.
So, let us be up and doing.
Defence Minister, Dominic Nitiwul has refuted assertions that military officials deployed to stop illegal mining have confiscated gold from galamsey sites.
Asamoah always dresses in black or some other dark color.
I didn't have enough time to finish my presentation.
The entire Law Village Project, according to the President, will cost about US$55 million.
They would make it seem that there was no room at the lunch table so I couldn’t sit with them.
It has to do with the degradation of our environment and the pollution of the atmosphere and of our water bodies. It has to do with petty bribery and corruption, and it has to do with bribery and corruption on a grand scale.
Do I let my children know that at times I also need help from others?
The pathologist believes it is problematic for the Allied Health Professional Council to dictate or regulate the functions of physicians and where they should operate from as it was seeking to do with the two hematologists.
“The Allied Health Professional Council regulates Allied Health Professionals, and the list is clearly stated in the schedule of Act 857 and it lists those who are allied health professionals – you must be a lab technician, you must be a medical laboratory technologist or a medical laboratory scientist. These are allied health professionals. As a medical doctor, I am not an allied health professional so under no circumstance can that regulatory agency regulate my practice. This is the mistake that unfortunately, the allied health professionals are making.”
I read at least one book every month.
The GAF has said its officers, deployed to curb illegal mining on water bodies and in forest reserves, will not hesitate to destroy all equipment chanced upon at illegal mining sites.
But you may have paused before responding to the second and the third.
Ever since international gold trading started over 400 years ago in the ‘Gold Coast’ at ‘El Mina’ has the winning of the precious metal become an existentialist threat like now. To save this nation,Government is being compelled to resort to radical measures, including burning equipment chanced upon near river bodies and in forest reserves.
When you and your partner discuss a problem, do you seem to end up further apart than when you started the conversation? If so, you can improve the situation.
“I will mention to all persons in Ghana that we are taking all the necessary steps to ensure that the census adheres to the protocols of COVID-19.
The passion and energy the minister was speaking with yesterday, I love it but he should put that same passion into paying us,” he told Francis Abban on Morning Starr Monday.
It's impossible.
Some people eliminate one or more food groups from their diet, thinking that doing so will help them lose weight.
Joe thought that Abena would like to go to Boston to see John.
If your attempts at compromise only escalate into heated arguments, it may be that you and your partner are focusing too much on where your views differ.
Eni is trying to find out if there is a viable solution that could be beneficial to all parties.
Asamoah always dresses in black or some other dark color.
In a press release announcing the winners, the judges of the London Book Fair International Excellence award wrote, “It really struck us as an amazing story of transformation and an example of how library services tackle some of the most pressing issues confronting their users.
You must have a lot of patience to learn foreign languages.
“What they did not know is that we are not touching the licenses. It is the illegalities we are touching.
You must have a lot of patience to learn foreign languages.
The most common first name in the world is Mohammed.
The €170 million facility, according to Dr. Hoyer, is the largest facility provided by the European Investment Bank for the establishment of a development bank in Africa or for any other project, for that matter, on the continent.
In the city of Koblenz, in the badly hit western German state of Rhineland-Palatinate, police said at least 125 people were now confirmed to have died.
The Spanish giants are understood to have had bids for Willian turned down by Chelsea, while he was also believed to be high up Jose Mourinho's list of targets in this window.
The facts, as narrated by prosecution, are that Intelligence Agencies picked up information sometime in April, this year, that the accused persons, armed with weapons, were illegally mining at Asankragua in the Western Region.
I'll soon register for a course in German.
He told his mother that he would study the next day.
Look at old photographs.
If negative role models have influenced your manner of communicating, look for good examples.
Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic production of which he is the author.
We cannot continue on this lane forever, we have to make sense. We are thinking beings,” he pleaded with his colleague Parliamentarians.
Melody Owusu was rushed to Margret Marquart Catholic Hospital in Kpando for medical attention.
Then don’t do that to someone else!!
Lt-Gen Ibrahim Attahiru, was killed after a military Beachcraft 350 aircraft crashed in the north-western state of Kaduna on Friday, May 21, 2021.
If your son receives a traffic ticket, it might be best to let him pay the fine out of his allowance or salary.
Out of form Medeama returned to winning ways through a solitary goal from Zakaria Mumuni in the first half against Eleven Wise.
NDC Member of Parliament for the Bolgatanga Central Constituency in the Upper East Region, Isaac Adongo, had asked the Appointments Committee to reject the nominee.
It adds that such people find it “easier to relate to other people and the wider world.”
Germany's federal disaster relief organization said it was very unlikely that any more survivors would be chanced upon.
Please lend me the book when you have finished reading it.
Whereas it is essential to promote the development of friendly relations between nations,
he added elections will be conducted in such a way that what people will choose will at the end of the day become those who will lead the country at the district, parliamentary and Presidential levels.
IF YOU are newly married, have you faced similar challenges? Does it seem that your mate suddenly has acquired faults and foibles that were absent when you were dating?
You regularly go out with a certain member of the opposite sex. Are you dating?
he added Parliament will directly engage them on the drafting of amendments to laws that affect their operations in order to ensure that their concerns are fully addressed.
Members of the Indian Community in Ghana have lauded the prompt offer of help, which came from Ghanaians of diverse backgrounds.
The Deputy Director of Public Health (DDPH) in the Ashanti Region, Dr. Michael Rockson Adjei, has emphasized that Larval Source Management (LSM), is a crucial malaria control intervention.
When things are calm, try the following exercise with your partner.
What can you do if you and your partner have let hurtful speech erode your relationship?
In the Upper West Region, the Wa Municipality has the highest coverage of 71 % in terms of active members as at June 2018 whilst Wa East District has the lowest of 32%.
Over the years, the adoption and growth of digital technologies, especially digital payment solutions, have created opportunities for businesses and individuals alike.
The GSS is training 280 persons out of which 160 would be selected as field officers to enumerate structures and residents of the District.
Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each state.
If I forgive, I have to forget what happened.
Abena abstained from voting.
“I encourage our workers to give in their best because at the end of the day they are going to pay for whatever they are doing. And once you have been paid for it, we need to go out there and do our best so that the programme would be a success.”
Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country, directly or through freely chosen representatives.
The man you met at the station is my father.
Do research or consult your doctor to learn about the benefits of the various substances chanced upon in foods.
“I will get the relevant committees to look at the specific laws in question and work with you to address the concerns,” he added.
Speaking at a press briefing on Wednesday, June 2, he revealed that 592 items including 24 excavators, 341 chanfang machines as well as 123 water pumping machines have been seized and destroyed.
he added issues affecting the private sector, including shortcomings in the tax collection system and general misunderstanding of the tax laws in the business community, must be addressed by Parliament.
Some are in court and others are pending to be sent to court anytime soon” he added.
If you discover new interests when you’re away from home or realize that you need to make some life changes, you’ll feel motivated to build a better life when you arrive home.
Additionally, he expressed appreciation to the MP for understanding a number of infrastructure projects in the town.
We, thus, encourage government to keep to its commitment in this regard.
Bullying is no trivial matter. A British study chanced upon that more than 40 percent of the youth suicides reported in the national media appeared to involve bullying as a contributing factor.
Since childhood, you may have learned to respect people who have more authority or experience than you have. In marriage, however, the challenge is to show respect for someone with whom you are on more of an equal footing​—your mate.
The woman, whose narration in the 2 minutes 5 seconds audio did not seem coherent, erroneously referred to Kofi Eshun as the President’s was speakingsman.
Additionally, some employees are being trained in critical areas such as mineral economics, metal finance, ventilation, and geotechnical engineering to improve their skills and knowledge.
What are some of the things we are doing?
Do research or consult your doctor to learn about the benefits of the various substances chanced upon in foods.
The government has thus introduced the double intake system to accommodate the overflow.
He had no choice but to run away.
We were attending to a customer when a fair tall man entered and held the customer.
You cannot say you want to sacrifice career over family or sacrifice family for your career.
Everyone has the right to a nationality.
The enumeration of persons in households and long-stay institutions would be enumerated from 28th June to 11th July, 2021.
What were we thinking?
“They come to view relationships as transitory—which in a sense prepares them for divorce rather than for marriage.”
Humbly accept that you will make mistakes.
The President continued, “with the 2021/2022 academic year fast approaching, the school is, again, faced with limited and overstretched facilities, hence the added importance of this project”.
Appiah can swim faster than anyone else in his swimming class.
We will however continue to be the voice of the voiceless and will not be distracted demanding justice and fairness at all times.”
“Neither will we surrender nor fail to champion the rights of all our people to enjoy the fundamental freedoms guaranteed under our constitution.”
Everyone has the right to recognition everywhere as a person before the law.
The police say their investigations indicate that the suspects were recruited by Yepalisi Naa, Alhaji Aminu Ayuba, to escort a newly installed chief from Banvim to the Bagliga community.
Travel makes you more resilient
They took every possibility into consideration.
Your partner says or does something that angers you, and you try to bottle up your anger.
The Vice President assured the investor community that while Government welcomes foreign direct
investment, such investment would have to be a partnership that was beneficial to all parties.
They are also more likely to be content.
Witnesses say, Sampson Ataafi, upon realizing that his girlfriend was in the new boyfriend’s room, opened fire on the lady through a trap door. After firing the gun, with the aim of killing the lady, Sampson killed himself and died in the process, thinking the lady had been killed.
Asamoah's family lives in Boston.
The Roads Minister made the disclosure at government’s press briefing in Accra on Sunday May 23, 2021.
Haruna Iddrisu insists that he wants President Akufo-Addo to lead the country by the constitution
“When completed, these facilities will help to decongest the high number of pupils in the classrooms, promote reading culture among pupils and also provide comfort for teachers who sit under trees to mark scripts,” he added.
“I strongly disagree, and I will advise those who take a contrary view to go to court to aveng their position if they so wish
For the whole year, I cried and ate alone.”
No one shall be held guilty of any penal offence on account of any act or omission which did not constitute a penal offence, under national or international law, at the time when it was committed.
Are you intentionally trying to confuse me?
Add to this record expenses such as taxes, insurance, or clothing, which may occur much less frequently, and use monthly averages for them
An Accra High Court on Monday, may 31, 2021 delivered its ruling regarding the denial of two Rastafarian boys; Tyrone Marhguy and Oheneba Nkrabea admission to Achimota School because they failed to cut their dreadlocks.
Speaking on the Morning Starr on Monday, May 10, Dr Mensah said the government must also restructure its policies and put in place policies that will engage the private sector to help revive the economy. “The economy has been hanging, and it’s been hanging for the past four years. And it has to do at the macro level.
“It is also to ensure how to control the anopheles mosquito in limiting the number of vectors.”
The National Democratic Congress (NDC) Member of Parliament (MP) for Nkwanta-North in the Oti Region, Mr. John Oti Bless, has cut the sod for the construction of a six-unit classroom block, a staff common room and a library for the Tinjase D/A Junior High School (JHS).
There’s no lender who’ll give you money for consumption so if we don’t see infrastructure to go with the monies borrowed, then it’s been used for something else.” His comments come after the Information Minister, Kojo Oppong Nkrumah said the Akufo-Addo government had to embark on extra borrowing in order to get the Ghanaian economy functioning despite the harsh impact of COVID-19.
Once you start smoking, it is difficult to get rid of that bad habit.
It is also expected that each participant would be able to interpret and use an Enumeration Area (EA) Chart, carry out listing of structures and complete a listing form.
Often, social media is linked with self-promotion​—broadcasting a person’s talents and accomplishments—​the very opposite of humility.
In the press release, they urged transport operators to stick to the proposed increase.
Judges sometimes refer to it as justification. The key argument is that extraordinary measures overriding current legal rights are permissible if the intent and action is in the line of duty and will preserve larger public interests.
The Supreme Court has thrown out a ¢1.27 billion judgment debt claim from the state by NDK Financial Services.
“I, thus, consider it necessary to put out this statement because the allegations made in the audio recording have no iota of truth, are pure fabrications, and are malicious, with the sole aim of courting public disaffection for me as a senior official of this government.”
It is up to us”, she pointed out.
The entire Law Village Project, according to the President, will cost about US$55 million.
In 1969, Roger Miller recorded a song called "You Don't Want My Love." Today, this song is better known as "In the Summer Time." It's the first song he wrote and sang that became popular.
Victoria's hunch was right.
“So if you go out there to mine, I cannot guarantee your safety when the soldiers are going to apprehend you. So I will advise you to not go out. It is not worth it.”
Then don’t do that to someone else!
One apparent restraint to our progress, what we may term the missing link in our governance system, which hampers the rapid economic development we seek, is the deficit in the application of the rule of law.
Whether on the phone or face-to-face, in the open or in secret, if you and a friend of the opposite sex have a special romantic understanding and communicate regularly, it’s dating.
A dog can have up to 50 times as many scent receptor cells as we do.
I read at least one book every month.
She advised that men support women during menstruation.
“The NDC will always remain the party of the people.
“It shows the deep roots of friendship that exists between the two communities since independence,” he added.
If anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he is deceiving himself.
It is also expected that each participant would be able to interpret and use an Enumeration Area (EA) Chart, carry out listing of structures and complete a listing form.
Having been born and raised in London, I have never seen anything quite like it, he added.
When your husband feels that he is not being shown respect, ask him how you can improve, and take note of the suggestion.
Even some parents may unwittingly sow the seeds of a me-first spirit.
Then his achievements will become a source of satisfaction both to him and to you.​
First, determine for each debt the interest rate, the fees, the impact of a late or missed payment, and the possibility that a payment is already overdue
Doing so is a primary way to develop maturity.
Mr. Mahama also took a swipe at the Supreme Court saying it has set a “dangerous precedence” by not allowing the Chairperson of the Electoral Commission to testify during the trial.
Sources close to Joy Business say the decision is due to a drop in traffic levels for winter as the UK continues to have quarantines and ‘red lists’.
Do research or consult your doctor to learn about the benefits of the various substances chanced upon in foods.
“These illegal activities were mostly being done in the night or under the cover of darkness protected by armed guards, as used cartridges were chanced upon at the sites.
Meanwhile, the old students association are pursuing the Headmistress to render account on some alleged financial malfeasance.
Have you ever lived in a rural area?
Dr. Nikhil Sharma from the District hospital Himachal Pradesh, stated: “Some angels from Africa are assisting to save lives in far off India and we will ever remain grateful to them for this kind gesture.”
Making the request in Parliament, Haruna Iddrisu said the fact that the President supports the approach does not make it right.
In fact, for the business community, we are trying to pitch to them on their posture of sales.
Disrespect creates tension in the home and leads to bitter conflict.
She made me a cake.
I don't blame you for the accident. It wasn't your fault.
“After driving on the Hamile road, terrible road, when we sat down, President beckoned me. he added, Minister, did you see the road we travelled on, the towns, and the conditions of the people?
Am I old enough to date?
Ghana’s total public debt stock has elevated once again according to new data released by the Bank of Ghana.
Over 8,000 teachers are being recruited to handle the sandwich classes.
Many households have lost their livelihoods because of the COVID-19 pandemic and are partially unable to meet their food and nutritional needs
Avoid misleading maxims.
But speaking on PM Express, Thomas Musa explained that tutors in the institution concerned must take the directive in good faith and pursue their mandate of delivering quality education.
Lonely people want attention, and they can get to a point where they don’t care who that attention comes from. They just want to feel wanted. But some people will make you feel wanted and then use you. Then you’ll feel lonelier than ever.
Revenge will add to the problem, not solve it.
We, who are gathered in this room, know the law, which is the chanced uponation of law and order, and the chanced uponation of every organised and progressive society.
Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks.
When you talk to others about your mate, share “whatever saying is good for building up as the need may be, that it may impart what is favorable to the hearers.”
To keep him in line, they all but lock him in the house. They pick his friends for him and eavesdrop on his phone calls.
Loneliness is, above all else, a mind-set. “It comes from inside a person, not from outside
he added Parliament will directly engage them on the drafting of amendments to laws that affect their operations in order to ensure that their concerns are fully addressed.
Now most girls absent themselves from school during the period of menstruation.
Continuing, the oil firm said unitization is appropriate when a hydrocarbon accumulation straddles a contract area boundary or hydrocarbons from one contract area migrate into the other contract area or hydrocarbons are commercially producible on both sides of the contract area boundary.
When was the last time you switched on this machine?
Asamoah abstained from voting.
You’ve got to balance it, and that is what I did.”
And that is why it is necessary to burn stray equipment once and for all to deter repetitive destructive behaviour. The state is enforcing through burning because it must necessarily do so if it is to turn the tide in the short term whilst strengthening traditional regulatory measures in the medium to long term. As has often been repeated by H.E the President, he does not intend to stop the age old business of artisanal mining but its highly destructive modern version must necessarily be stopped with all the authority and force the state commands.
Thus parents buy them stuff. And children are excited, but only for a short period of time. Then they want even more stuff.
Ghana’s population has since moved from 6.7 million in 1960 to 24.6 million in 2010, and currently estimated at 30 million.
Dating should have an honorable purpose—to help a young man and woman determine if they want to get married to each other.
Some might even view such a friend as little more than a trophy or an accessory to be seen with in public to boost their own self-esteem.
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, on Wednesday, 26th May, 2021, has cut the sod for the first phase of construction works to begin on the Law Village of the Ghana Law School.
Government had also assured as by a letter from the Ministry of Finance that the suspension of the quarterly income tax paid by owners of trotros and taxis will be extended to cover intercity commuter vehicles to reduce the operational cost.
This involves the use of the military to destroy all mining equipment at illegal mining sites and also apprehend illegal miners.
It’s a lot more, from Software to Hardware and in fact, when we talk about anything ICT or any solution in that regard, I realized that Huawei is the way to go, and bingo they have it all” he added.
I have no role, and I do not participate in their business dealings.”
We blazed the trail for participatory democracy and I am confident that out of the ashes of this legal setback, we will mobilize and rekindle the struggle for a better democratic Ghana.”
I care about my friends, but sometimes I don’t think that they care about me in return.
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.
Now things have changed, and both you and your partner must put your marriage above your personal preferences.
Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in association with others.
Prosecution said during the arrest, six pump action guns and cash of GHC1,292,180, sandy substances suspected to be gold dust, a yellow bar suspected to be a gold bar, and liquid substances suspected to be mercury, were chanced upon.
There are 2,586,782 confirmed active cases in the country, according to the health ministry.
These figures demonstrate how the growth of our economy is gradually relying on digital structures in bringing meaningful changes to business and society.
So when we did, we saw his lifeless body in front of his steering wheel with blood in the car,” he told JoyNews.
On the AK-47 that was retrieved, the police suspect that it was a police weapon.
I did nothing.
She also claimed that Mr. Bediatuo had told them that the Art Centre was going for 500 million, but did not specify whether the added amount was in cedis or dollars.
In principle we are not opposed to unitization, but this needs to follow an appropriate, shared work programme and estimate the process to assess the elements listed above before taking decisions in the interest of all parties.
With the Ghana School of Law being the nation’s sole institution responsible for professional legal education, and for training eligible persons as lawyers and integrating them into the legal system, President Akufo-Addo expressed his delight about the project taking place under his Presidency.
Within days, the body begins to replace injured tissue, make the wound contract, and repair damaged blood vessels.
I work every day except Saturday.
“For example, you may have a very big water body like a lake that we cannot readily drain or even a marshy area that serves as a source or breeding site for mosquitoes,” he added.
German cars are very popular.
“From working with Commonwealth of Learning to support over 30,000 Ghanaians enroll in its Read2skill programme, supporting the Ministry of Education and the Ghana Education Service with a Learning Management System for Basic education and enhancing Digital Library with video tutorials, supported by UNICEF to deploy mobile library vans to transport books to homes of young people in the era of COVID-19, it is a mark of innovation and relentlessness on the part of the staff of GhLA to support the Ghanaian life- long learner”.
Simply telling a child that he or she is “awesome” does not encourage humility. Be specific.
“What is disturbing is that the excavators that have been taken from the mining sites are packed in towns, villages and by roadsides in clusters of 10 to 20, and there is a very high tendency that these excavators will find their way back to the galamsey sites during the night when our operations halt.”
What exactly is dating?
Whereas it is essential to promote the development of friendly relations between nations,
Our company's first priority is meeting our customers' needs.
He was addressing concerns raised by the Federation on some compelling issues affecting the growth of the private sector, including laws relating to taxes.
Asphalt overlay costs $200,000 -$250,000.
“Our hearts go out to all their families and may their souls rest in perfect peace”, Akufo-Addo tweeted.
Ghana’s out of pocket expenditure per capita decreased from 38 Dollars in 2010 to 25 Dollars in 2015. That's according to the NHIS's Upper West Regional Director, Abass Suleymana.
The National Labor Commission (NLC), is expected to meet the management of the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital (KATH), the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GALMS), and the Health Ministry next week.
Let's call him Snoopy.
All these come at a time the government has renewed the combat against all forms of illegal mining to protect the country’s forest reserves and rivers.
That usually works better than phone calls at random times or late at night.
In the provincial capital of Zhengzhou, at least 12 people died when floodwaters inundated an underground subway line on Tuesday night.
Everyone gets lonely at times; it’s just a matter of degree. And while loneliness can be a devastating feeling, in the end it’s just that​—a feeling.
Work is expected to be completed in 10 months.
He thus described it as an “embarrassing stain” on the country’s judicial and electoral systems as well as a major source of worry to well-meaning Ghanaians.
Achimota School has backed down on a decision to freeze the court order to admit the two Rastafarians boys.
Expect your child to do chores.
President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has allayed fears that, the double in track system will destroy the education system as being speculated by a cross section of the Public.
A former Director-General of the Ghana Health Service, Professor Agyemang Badu Akosa, has hit hard at members of the Komfo Anokye Chapter of the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GAMLS) who are protesting the posting of the two hematologists to the Laboratory Service Department of the hospital.
Talking to my sons used to be pleasant. They listened carefully to what I had to say, and they responded immediately.
Where I come from, people tend to be tactless. My blunt way of expressing myself often upset my wife. I had to learn to be more gentle.
When your husband feels that he is not being shown respect, ask him how you can improve, and take note of the suggestion.
Kwabena always checks the caller ID before he answers the phone.
He, however, indicated that government will remain focused on delivering on its mandate and will not be intimidated.
You owe me one.
What is the purpose of dating?
I accused my wife of wasteful spending,” admits Ebo, “while she complained that we would have enough money if I had a job that provided year-round work.”
How to End “the Silent Treatment
My sister works at the United States Embassy in London.
Dr. Pinkrah said election is not about theory but practical.
A troubled resident who was speaking to City News said “almost every week there are armed robbers patrolling all over this place”.
He then commanded everyone to lie down, and he took all the money,” Charity narrated the incident amidst tears.
London, the capital of England, is on the Thames.
In the interim, irresponsible mining must be stopped from completely spiralling out of control.
The Vice Chancellor of the Gimpa Prof Samuel Afful says “the reports reaching his office indicate that some supervisors hardly give quality guidance to the students assigned to them and this does not help in the production of quality thesis.”
When you genuinely believe that you haven’t done anything wrong,” says a husband named Joseph, “withholding an apology becomes a way of declaring your innocence.
I haven't eaten since breakfast. I'm hungry.
he added the application of larvicide was done at various mosquito breeding sites that could be dredged.
A friend of mine is struggling with chronic loneliness.
“One of the things I want to do is to engage civil society to present drafts on the proposed correction that will serve the business community better.
So don’t overreact to such emotionally charged statements as “You never listen” or “You are always late.
The most important thing, however, is for the banks to be responsive.
Raising Considerate Children in a Me-First World
“There are many of them who are in a hurry to assume office even while Parliament has not even considered their nomination.
Several times a day, you send text messages or talk to this person on the phone. Are you dating?
In recent decades, parents have been encouraged to yield to their children’s desires; to praise them generously, even if they did nothing praiseworthy; to withhold correction and discipline.
Joe tried to convince everyone that he was innocent.
“The registration number of the AK-47 that was taken from the people had been erased, but it is suspected that this weapon may be police property,” DSP Moses Atibilla said.
The Zoomlion General Manager for Ashanti East, Jane Appiah, indicated that LSM was one of the best interventions in the control of malaria.
They saw they had no choice.
I'll finish it in two or three minutes.
As a parent, examine your own attitude toward money and the things it can buy.
The kids are yelling, the television is blaring, and you are thinking about a problem you had at work
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his/her religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance.
The vision of GCB Bank is “to be the leading bank in all our markets”, whilst its mission is to provide first class banking solutions for our customers and value for all stakeholders.
If you think of your partner as your teammate rather than your opponent, you will be less likely to take offense, argue, and then refuse to talk to your partner.
You and your partner have just had an argument. ‘I don’t need to apologize,’ you tell yourself. ‘I’m not the one who started it!’
Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers.
Although she’s surrounded by people who care about her, she still feels invisible and unlovable. She masks her low self-worth with a stern exterior.
With the Ghana School of Law being the nation’s sole institution responsible for professional legal education, and for training eligible persons as lawyers and integrating them into the legal system, President Akufo-Addo expressed his delight about the project taking place under his Presidency.
Proteins can help your body combat infection and also build and repair tissues.
First, though, there are a few things you should know about the different communication styles of men and women.
Also, in November 2019, an illegal small-scale mining pit in the outskirts of Kokofu collapsed and trapped eight persons between the ages of 24 and 35 years.
“It is also to ensure how to manage the anopheles mosquito in limiting the number of vectors.”
Whether it is the intense heat that causes fires, the torrential rains in the middle of summer, or the virus that is shaking the whole world, we cannot forget the responsibility of human beings in these phenomena and the consequences of the massive exploitation of natural resources.
More than 160 people are dead, and hundreds more remain missing after catastrophic flooding hit large parts of Western Europe. A desperate search for survivors continues despite great obstacles and difficulties.
The families will receive seeds and basic agricultural tools and be trained in successful growing methods
During Starr News investigation into the matter, it came to light that, the National Intelligence Bureau (NIB) was also investigating same and had with immediate effect stopped the Headmistress from feeding the students from the school.
Emphasize that serving others is a privilege.
Doing so is a primary way to develop maturity.
What an amusing situation!
We must start immediately.
Additionally, he expressed appreciation to the MP for understanding a number of infrastructure projects in the town.
“We have not really benefited from the extraction of our natural resources, and it is for this reason that
we need especially in the area of our minerals, to bring a new paradigm, a new thinking into how as a
country we can benefit more from our mineral resources,” the Vice President took notice.
According to the Chief of Defence Staff, Vice Admiral Seth Amoama, over seven hundred excavators believed to have been moved from mining sites are likely to be taken back to mining sites.
The city was full of hungry soldiers.
“I have been securly informed that 1,000 students were admitted during the 2020/2021 academic year.
When you feel stressed or “down,” traveling can make you happier and help you improve your life in so many ways.
May I, Mr. Speaker, serve a warning that in accordance with the ruling J.H. Mensah vs Attorney General, they will be in a hurry at their own peril because they must respect the provisions of the Constitution.”
She might conclude that she has lost her knack, so why try to improve?
He makes a bad impression.
Members of the Chapter have declared an indefinite strike starting Thursday, 27th May, 2021, over the move, after they started with a one-week sit-down strike.
It may appear, though, that many think only of themselves.
He is a known advocate of media rights, representing journalists in court, helping repeal criminal libel, passing Right to Information legislation and speaking to the Press regularly. He has overseen an explosion in social media-attracting both Google and Twitter. Nana Addo does not have the right, authority, capacity or inclination to stop the media from doing its legitimate work. All he wants is mutual responsibility and accountability for our actions. He will not shy away from that. The media ought not to appear to be a den of impunity. Indeed, no institution of state ought to be above lawful enquiry, as Rule of Law demands.
Our items are very affordable.
It’s better to discuss the problem respectfully.
Additionally, seven units of 10-litre-oxygen concentrators are being presented by the Government of Ghana to India’s Ministry of External Affairs, through the Ghana High Commission in New Delhi.
In an interview with Joy News, Kasoa DOVVSU Commander, ASP Dories Larye Aggrey said, the mother
of the victim asked her daughter to live with the suspect when their friendship became intimate.
The Association previously held a strike in January, 2021, but its members returned to work in February after the National Labour Commission (NLC) secured a court injunction compelling them to resume their duties while negotiations with government continued.
The Ashanti Regional Police Command says the 43-year-old man who was killed during a robbery incident at Buokrom Estate in Kumasi has died.
His political equanimity is evident in his relations with the current Parliament, especially Rt. Hon Speaker.
But the young person who is genuinely interested in what the recruiter has to say is more likely to get the job.
Chief Technology Officer of IT Consortium, EbowAnamoah-Mensah, has said, although Ghana is gradually becoming a “commonplace” for cashless transactions, it requires a few more years for it to be nationally adapted.
It takes time for a couple to adjust and develop an agreed-upon method of handling money
But I think we are on the right track, I think we are well pluck into the journey; we have invested in automating our front office, we invested heavily in our back house, we’ve tried to develop digital platforms to our customers so they can work from home, our customers can access the bank from anywhere.”
You probably know that an unbalanced diet can damage your health.
The panel of judges in their remark stated that they were amazed about the story of the transformation of library services.
I will go to your funeral.
Kwame yawned.
Members of the Chapter have declared an indefinite strike starting Thursday, 27th May, 2021, over the move, after they started with a one-week sit-down strike.
I haven't eaten since breakfast. I'm hungry.
According to him, the practice is illegal and unwarranted.
Broccoli is one of the healthiest vegetables.
My neighbor's son made fun of my daughter today at school.
Before marriage, you might have been accustomed to making unilateral decisions
He promised to visit the ancient town as soon as possible to strengthen the relationship.
Your son is behaving arrogantly​—and he is only ten!
The country conducted a National Census in 1960, 1970, 1984, 2000, and 2010.
It is no surprise, then, that the leading cause of divorce is disagreements about money.
But the likelihood of innocent victims ought not to stop the state from exerting its authority in the interest of preserving our common heritage, be it in the cleaning of Accra or battling galamsey.
Paul couldn't put up with the pain.
In conclusion, the lack of self-restraint within the general populace, if not addressed resolutely, will overwhelm every progressive initiative of Government.
Inspired by blood clotting, researchers are developing plastics that can “heal” damage to themselves.
You might find that the aspects that you both feel strongest about are not really all that incompatible.
Asamoah had his ear pressed to the door, trying to hear what was going on in the next room.
Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks.
I love it when Yaw asks questions. It shows me that he’s interested in what I’m saying.
No laws in Ghana today allows the burning of excavators,” he added.
Our server will be offline on October 20th for scheduled maintenance.
If something takes effort,’ she reasons, ‘I must not be cut out for it​—so why try?
Authorities warn the number could go up
The Kenyan authorities have picked up a Ghanaian national who is alleged to have fraudulently obtained $83,000 (£58,490) from a woman in a romance scam.
One is Japanese and the other is Italian.
There are plenty of reasons you might decide to leave home​—some of them not too wise
The President of PEF, Nana Osei Bonsu, who led the delegation, said it was time for the legislature to create a periodic dialogue platform where issues affecting the private sector could be discussed with members of the House.
The gathering was told that distance courses have been started for candidates in remote districts who hardly get opportunity to upgrade themselves and that the initiative is aimed at widening the university’s coverage to allow teachers and other workers in “distant communities” to obtain qualifications that are relevant to their career objectives.
“I have been reliably informed that 1,000 students were admitted during the 2020/2021 academic year.
In the trainings, I learned new recipes and put them into practice.
Why haven't you told Asamoah that he owes 300 dollars?
Rather than think of that as a drawback, consider the advantage.
Such flexibility allows sea cucumbers to wriggle their way into tiny crevices and then stiffen so that predators cannot pull them out.
We want to express our support for the victims, their families, and the rescue workers.”
My father isn't reading a book now.
When is it a bad idea?’ ‘What’s an interest rate?’ ‘When have you bought something because someone else thought you should?’”
On Twitter, President Buhari said the crash was a “mortal blow… at a time our armed forces are poised to end the security challenges facing the country”.
Exploring a foreign country is fun, but you also have to deal with the language barrier, choosing from a variety of ways to get around, making sure you have an international driving permit, and experiencing new foods and people, which will ultimately make you a tougher person in the long run.
Revenge will add to the problem, not solve it.
Traveling builds resilience, and resilient people are typically happier.
The panelists who commended the Central Banks move of merging five insolvent Banks said it is an innovative and efficient intervention.
She went on to mention how the Huawei ICT Academy creates an easy pathway for students to enter the job market.
Brazil is a young country without a commitment to the past.
By the time you will come in the morning, you will realize that almost all of your goods are gone.
The President of PEF, Nana Osei Bonsu, who led the delegation, said it was time for the legislature to create a regular dialogue platform where issues affecting the private sector could be discussed with members of the House.
Medical oxygen becomes essential for treatment of severe COVID-19 patients.
Ethiopians will starve unless more convoys are allowed, & much faster.
As has often been repeated by H.E the President, he does not intend to stop the age old business of artisanal mining but its highly destructive modern version must necessarily be stopped with all the authority and force the state commands.
Members of the Chapter have declared an indefinite strike starting Thursday, 27th May, 2021, over the move, after they started with a one-week sit-down strike.
Its members must be the natural champions of a law-based state, whose establishments should be solid enough to sanction effectively vigilantism, bank frauds, cyber frauds, sharp practice, illegal mining, unlawful exports of fertilisers and oil products, identity thefts, stealing of public funds, bribery and corruption, criminal cartels, and criminal behaviour in general.
Give correction when necessary
The MP urged chiefs and opinion leaders in the area to support initiatives that would facilitate teaching and learning in schools.
The GAF has said its officers, deployed to curb illegal mining on water bodies and in forest reserves, will not hesitate to destroy all equipment chanced upon at illegal mining sites.
This incident comes at a time when government has renewed the combat against all forms of illegal small-scale mining in the country.
Everyone has the right to a nationality.
Now ask one of your parents the same question
The suspect masquerades as a preacher, approaches innocent women looking for love and affection online, with big promises of making their lives better before fraudulently obtaining money from them.”
In a video that has gone viral on social media, a seemingly new ambulance, with registration number GV 537-20, is seen being loaded with bags of cement by some young men.
We want to express our support for the victims, their families, and the rescue workers.”
Identify the friend or relative with whom you have the most difficult relationship, and then discuss with your mate how you can improve that relationship.
How to Manage Money
Think: Would you like someone to play with your feelings as if they were some child’s toy—to be picked up for a moment and then quickly abandoned?
The Supreme Court has rejected a ¢1.27 billion judgment debt claim from the state by NDK Financial Services.
The Roads and Highways Minister said that President Akufo-Addo’s in his second term is projecting to complete 6,000 kilometers out of 11,000 kilometers of roads.
Earlier this year, UT Bank and Capital Bank also faced the same liquidation problem.
He assured that neither himself nor the NDC will do anything against the collective interest of the nation.
A look at your bank statements and bills reveals that your money is slipping away like sand that slips through your fingers.
Additionally, he expressed appreciation to the MP for understanding a number of infrastructure projects in the town.
It was difficult for us to decide which one to buy.
Expect your child to do chores.
It is GIZ’s goal to strengthen Ghana’s Digitalization Agenda by building a strong partnership with the private sector, a good collaboration with stakeholders in Ghana from government, academia and civil society and innovative approaches.
“We are not content with how the government has handled our issue so far, we are becoming more and more frustrated.”
I will make their issuance of bonds a murky business in 2021, and I urge the Appointments Committee to reject his nomination for the interest of mother Ghana.”
“We were all in our room and we heard a loud noise ‘boom’. Some of us even thought it was a knockout.
Discuss what each of you could have done differently to address the underlying issues without arguing.​
Rather than shield your children from every hardship, prepare them for the challenges they will face as adults.​
They supplied the soldiers with enough food and water.
She added that he defiled her several times. ASP Larye said in view of the trauma the 10-year-old has
endured over the period, a Psychologist has been engaged to counsel her.
You nod “OK,” but did you really hear what was said? Likely not.
Bullying includes more than physical assaults
What is the main purpose of dating?
If you discover new interests when you’re away from home or realize that you need to make some life changes, you’ll feel motivated to build a better life when you arrive home.
Several times a day, you send text messages or talk to this person on the phone. Are you dating?
Really, dating is any social activity in which your romantic interest is focused on one particular person and that person’s interest is focused on you.
So when you take your gold out of the soil, if you take a 1000 tonnes, you will have to pay us our share out of that.
Government’s commitment to leaving a lasting legacy in professional legal education in Ghana is absolute,” he said
We also tend to remember the good parts of our travels and forget the stressful parts in the long term, so travel makes us feel warm and fuzzy inside.
The Government needs precious time to retool regulations and bring responsible mining on stream.
The authorities also recovered fake currency and materials used to print fake money.
A contract that’s supposed to go to tendering is given to a party person who knows nothing about construction.
Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests.
Even though computer programmers may use semicolons every day, nowadays most people only use semicolons for emoticons.
Out of the 34 suspects, two of them have been identified as part of a gang of five suspected armed robbers who are on the police wanted list in the region.
The state is enforcing through burning because it must necessarily do so if it is to turn the tide in the short term whilst strengthening traditional regulatory measures in the medium to long term.
I'm glad to hear that your sister is out of danger after her operation.
I still have the sweater you gave me when I was thirteen.
“What is happening at KATH is an affront on the practice of medical laboratory science in Ghana.
I tried to hide my disappointment.
You and your partner have different preferences on something. Realistically, you have at least three options
People who drink alcoholic beverages are not allowed to enter.
Dr. Pinkrah said election is not about theory but practical.
You regularly go out with a certain member of the opposite sex. Are you dating?
Again, focus on effort. Consider an example: Suppose you often tell your daughter, “You’re a natural at math,” but then she fails a math test.
Some parents try to micromanage their teen.
Always consult your mate when making major decisions about your finances.
Increase your income.
The Managing Director said GCB Bank will strategize to become the dominant digital banking player in the country, commending the past administration for the work done in developing technology.“
Shortly after they begun, we realized that the list had been replaced with another one that had other people.
Unrealistic expectations can make a person more prone to find fault and less inclined to forgive.
Financial sustainability, identification of the poor and vulnerable, delays in reimbursing service providers due to huge volumes and values of claims, compromised quality of care, illegal charges to insured members as well as delays in the submission of claims have been identified as some of the challenges of the National Health Insurance Scheme.
Inordinate pride can make you too embarrassed to acknowledge your share of the blame.
Akwesi Yeboah pleaded not guilty to the charge of defilement, but was chanced upon guilty by the Accra Circuit Court, presided over by Ms. Christiana Cann, after a full trial.
The new model will be on the market in November.
Ismaila was immediately worried.
Chances are, your answer is different from that of your parent.
A stepmother in Namibia named Judith says: “My stepchildren’s mother once told them that I was just their father’s new wife and that any children we had would not be their siblings.
Can you answer that?
Doing so is a primary way to develop maturity.
Rather than think of that as a drawback, consider the advantage.
There's been a lot of rain this year.
The 2021 Population and Housing Census (PHC), with the slogan, ‘You Count, Get Counted’, will provide the opportunity for the country to gather credible and comprehensive data on the citizenry towards transforming the economy for sustainable development.
Thus parents buy them stuff. And children are excited, but only for a short period of time. Then they want even more stuff.
She also takes Ghc200 as feeding fee from each student per month but feeds the students with meals allegedly prepared for boarding students.
He drives a pink Cadillac.
The next time your mate begins speaking to you, resist the feeling to respond immediately.
They have vowed to call off the strike only if the two are withdrawn from the hospital’s laboratory unit.
I have been hearing people forcing the Armed Forces to accept that they have seized things that they have not seized.
To this end, Mr. Adomakoh said “we are drawing on the bank’s relationship internally and partnerships and also externally with international finance institutions and with capacity building agencies to help drive this agenda.
They are also more likely to be content.
Whereas disregard and contempt for human rights have resulted in barbarous acts which have outraged the conscience of mankind, and the advent of a world in which human beings shall enjoy freedom of speech and belief and freedom from fear and want has been proclaimed as the highest aspiration of the common people,
If you travel with your partner, you will quickly learn how you each communicate and how you can improve your relationship.
If you try to shut out the other parent altogether, your child might suffer emotionally
So strive to nurture positive thoughts and feelings about your partner.
The system was designed in a way that it came with the introduction of the MASLOC CARD for applications.
But, counsel for NDK, Alfred Bannerman Williams, kicked against the application.
You are always late. You look worn out.
Perhaps they simply enjoy being with a special friend of the opposite sex, without any intention of marriage.
Asamoah is still in love with Abena.
The fugitive is armed and dangerous.
A starving person will eat almost anything.
Days of extreme heat last week have given way to cooler temperatures and unsettled, stormy weather in places.
I wasn’t blaming you!” shouts your mate—whose original intention was merely to suggest a relaxing weekend together.
Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.
A man believed to be in his 30s has killed himself dead after he killed his girlfriend, Melody Owusu, who he allegedly caught with another man.
All are equal before the law and are entitled without any discrimination to equal protection of the law.
For the whole year, I cried and ate alone.”
The Roads and Highways Minister said that President Akufo-Addo’s second term is projecting to complete 6,000 kilometers out of 11,000 kilometers of roads.
He thus described it as an “embarrassing stain” on the country’s judicial and electoral systems as well as a major source of worry to well-meaning Ghanaians.
When your partner is finished speaking, paraphrase what was said to see if you understood it correctly.
He never makes me feel stupid because of the way I feel.
The Ashanti regional capital, Kumasi which is one of the fastest-growing cities in Africa has not fully taken advantage of the e-commerce space as many residents still go through traffic as part of their busy schedules in order to purchase items.
As a medical doctor, I am not an allied health professional so under no circumstance can that regulatory agency regulate my practice.
I accused my wife of wasteful spending,” admits Ebo, “while she complained that we would have enough money if I had a job that provided year-round work.”
He told us such a funny story that we all laughed.
For some, the stress becomes unbearable.
Let us put our shoulders to the wheel so that future generations will appreciate our contribution to the making of a successful, democratic Ghana, which guarantees the liberties of our people, the institutions of good governance, the cohesion of our society, the well-being of the masses, and the peace, prosperity and unity of our nation.”
Kwabena pleaded guilty to drunken driving and his driver's license was suspended for six months.
Granted, some of your peers might take a casual view of dating.
The Speaker gave the assurance at a meeting with the Private Enterprises Federation (PEF) in Parliament on Tuesday.
Rather, a person with humility takes genuine interest in others and is willing to learn from them.
Over 8,000 teachers are being recruited to handle the sandwich classes.
I owe you a dinner.
Achimota School insisted that they comply fully with the School’s regulations by shaving their dreadlocks.
Is it possible to teach a child humility without damaging his or her self-worth?
That bothers you even more.
Why are we just splitting heads because medical laboratory scientists believe the laboratory space is for them. It is not for them,” Mr. Akosa insisted.
Mr. Mahama says even though he is disappointed by the verdict of the apex court on the Election Petition, he is “legally bound” to accept it.
He assured that neither himself nor the NDC will do anything against the collective interest of the nation.
He concluded saying “the covid-19 pandemic was a real test and I’m excited to say the bank really excelled in terms of using the digital platforms.
To keep him in line, they all but lock him in the house. They pick his friends for him and eavesdrop on his phone calls.
London has already been hit by flash floods this month, after a month's rain fell in the space of a single day.
The couple doesn't combat often these days, but they used to a lot.
He concluded saying “the covid-19 pandemic was a real test and I’m excited to say the bank really excelled in terms of using the digital platforms.
I could cook one root in three meals, and I even gave some to my mother,” she says.
The chief enumerated a number of infrastructure projects the MP carried out in the area, including rural electrification, mechanized boreholes, CHPS compounds, school buildings, and a communication tower.
Some just assume that they will be promoted quickly, even without mastering their trade.
Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Mr Evans Kessie told the Court that Rita was a trader, living at Shukura near Dansoman.
Kwaku has been teaching us French for the past four years.
But Prof. Akosa on Citi TV’s Point of View said the strike is unchanced uponed, given that hematologists are equally qualified to work in laboratories.
When your son was younger, he was like a boat tied to a dock​—you. Now as a teenager, he is tugging at the rope, eager to set sail, and you get the impression that you are not invited on board.
Despite the full-time requirements, we hope that you will find time outside of the training to reflect on what you are being taught here”, he added.
It comes on the back of claims of the minister that government will be going hard on contractors in the coming weeks over shoddy jobs.
A development which led to the Acting Director and Management of the School taking a cue from the double-track system initiated in our Senior High Schools, to introduce a triple-track system,” he added.
What [Naana Jane] has taken for granted [is that], some students may not get scholarships to certain universities around the world because they are going to look at them and say they have cheated and don’t deserve to get the scholarship”.
“I encourage our workers to give in their best because at the end of the day they are going to pay for whatever they are doing. And once you have been paid for it, we need to go out there and do our best so that the programme would be a success.”
At what age, do you think, is it appropriate for a youth to start dating?
Exploring a foreign country is fun, but you also have to deal with the language barrier, choosing from a variety of ways to get around, making sure you have an international driving permit, and experiencing new foods and people, which will ultimately make you a tougher person in the long run.
CEO of ZEEPAY, Andrew Takyi Appiah, on his part said the Central Bank should not relent on its efforts in enforcing its directives so as to bring sanity into the financial sector.
The Ghana Mine Workers’ Union has called for a full-scale tripartite (Government, the Ghana Chamber of Mines, and Ghana Mineworkers’ Union) investigation into the frequent occurrences of mine accidents, for a more sustainable panacea to the issue.
He, thus, commended the organizers for putting together the training programme, pointing out that “we need to equip field workers so that they can do their work well.”
From using technology to support remote learning to promoting information skills, literacy and reading, this is a great example of the difference a quality library can make.”
Many politicians fail to keep their promises.
Defending champions of the MTN FA Cup, Asante Kotoko had no problems in the round of 64 dispatching BYFA 2-0.
That’s what marriage should be about—give and take, not just take.
We have recently been able to work on the data thanks to the intervention of the Ministry of Energy and delivered our analysis in the direction of finding a viable solution regarding the potential optimization of the recovery of oil reserves”, it added.
The claim that ambulance belongs to [my district] is a lie.”
Family Life Counsellor, Rev. Vincent Akwaa, bewailed the recent increase in reported cases of broken homes; a phenomenon he blamed on the reason that most people marry out of pressure.
Phase One of the project complementing the facilities of the Accra Main Campus located at Makola, at a cost of US$4 million).
Really, dating is any social activity in which your romantic interest is focused on one particular person and that person’s interest is focused on you.
Each accomplishment, no matter how small, was celebrated; each indiscretion, no matter how large, was overlooked.
With Hubtel, we open it up more and the thing moves more, the prices eventually come down.”
“Kumasi has been changing and growing very well.
Mr Polley said each trainee had been given a hard copy of the Field Officer’s Manual, questionnaire and tablet among other things for the training.
He however indicated that his personnel will adjust their operations to apprehend the miners.
Some people eliminate one or more food groups from their diet, thinking that doing so will help them lose weight.
So be sure your intentions are honorable
"Further to our statement issued on 1st june 2021 on the subject of two Rastafarian applicants, we have been in consultation with other relevant stakeholders to seek the best ways forward, taking into account the interest of all parties,"it said.
Many politicians fail to keep their promises.
Key milestones such as the digitalisation of the passport office, digital addressing system, paperless ports, mobile money operability, and many others have increased the productivity and growth of the Ghanaian economy.
ASP Larye said the suspect was sharing the same double-bed with the victim and that is how the man got the opportunity to take advantage of the young girl.
If you can’t tolerate the imperfections of your siblings, how will you deal with a partner, a workmate, an employer, or anyone else you have to interact with
It would be recalled that on Thursday 25th March,2021, one Emmanuel Antwi aged 40 now deceased was robbed of Toyota Prado vehicle by three armed men,” he added.
The Anti-galamsey military task force (Operation Halt) has reportedly returned to the mining site of the ruling New Patriotic Party, Women’s Organizer for the third time to burn a generator plant and a wooden office structure at the mining site.
The crash comes three months to the day after a Nigerian military plane crashed short of a runway in the capital Abuja, killing all seven people on board.
Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests.
So the answer to all three questions is yes.
Your son is behaving arrogantly​—and he is only ten!
This will significantly reduce delays in the licensing process and will eliminate the paper application, with all clients expected to complete applications online.
The Executive Director of the Ghana Library Authority, Mr. Hayford Siaw, in response, expressed gratitude to the LBF for the recognition and also to the government of Ghana led by Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo for the renewed commitment to public library service delivery in Ghana.
Travel lets you think about your life
Chief Whip of the New Patriotic Party Caucus in Parliament, Frank Annoh-Dompreh, who is also a member of the Pan-African Parliament (PAP), the legislative body of the African Union, has called for calm following a row that ensued during the election of leadership for the continental body.
He never makes me feel stupid because of the way I feel.
“The NDC will always remain the party of the people.
“Various caucuses have taken entrenched positions so people want to make sense, people are speaking logic, people are quoting protocols that exist that is binding, and yet nobody listens.
You may also find yourself bonding with your significant other more than usual and connecting with them on a much deeper level.
he added that is why anywhere we go, I don’t want to go with a helicopter.
The Laboratory Scientists have been on a sit-down strike for close to a week now, in protest against the decision.
He drives a pink Cadillac.
Loneliness is like quicksand. The more you wallow in it, the harder it is to get out of it. If you let it consume your thinking, soon you’ll have a full-fledged pity party that no one else wants to go to.
In general, it is unwise to try to coerce or pressure someone into feeling real love.
The city was full of hungry soldiers.
Just the act of planning a trip together with your partner can bring you closer than you were before – and make you excited.
Your apologizing can make it easier for your partner to apologize too.
Likely, you listen patiently and speak respectfully to friends and even strangers. Yet, are you just as considerate to your mate?
We want to express our support for the victims, their families, and the rescue workers.”
Travel can strengthen your relationships
Speaking at a press briefing in Accra on Sunday, May 23, 2021, on measures the government is taking to improve Ghana’s road network, the sector Minister indicated that the Hamile road has now been asphalted.
Apologies give you the chance to prove your love for each other.
After firing the gun, with the aim of killing the lady, Sampson killed himself and died in the process, thinking the lady had been killed.
Speaking to the media at a news conference, the Public Relations Officer of the Ashante Regional Police Command, ASP Godwin Ahianyo, called on the public to assist them to arrest the culprits.
Government’s commitment to leaving a lasting legacy in professional legal education in Ghana is absolute,” he added.
His behavior disappointed many of his friends.
In this piece, correspondent Emmanuel Mensah-Abludo says the students at the Wa campus are pursuing their courses at the Faculty of Integrated Development Studies, School of Business and Law as well as the Faculty of Planning and Land Management.
How can a couple keep debts from driving them apart?
I do not like mathematics very much.
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his/her property.
Learning to maintain a excited, balanced marriage relationship is like learning to ride a bicycle.
Some people collect friends the way others collect figurines. But having a roomful of collectibles never made anyone feel loved.
Cyberbullying also includes sending harmful photos or text messages using a cell phone.
When you upset your wife by the way you exercise or fail to exercise your headship, ask her how you can improve, and then write the suggestion down.
So far as the laboratory space has different professionals, the headship can be based on competence, so we cannot sit here and say that the laboratory should be for laboratory scientists alone.
Managing Director of GCB Bank, John Kofi Adomakoh is promising a leadership that will transform the bank as the dominant player in the Ghanaian banking industry.
If your son receives a traffic ticket, it might be best to let him pay the fine out of his allowance or salary.
Jane and I got along better after this.
It is far better when both partners have a self-sacrificing disposition.
As per data available from the Ghana Health Service, it appears that, unfortunately, our nation is experiencing a third wave of COVID-19 infections.
That's a frightening possibility.
I thank ADRA for these valuable trainings. I also thank the church for its support. I wish to get more seeds in order to increase my production
Such words can help your partner to heal.
He kept badgering her until she told him what he wanted to know.
Meanwhile, Executive Director of Child Rights International, Bright Appiah believes the ruling ordering Achimota School to admit two Rastafarian students is still in force despite the institution’s decision to contest it.“Once a ruling has been given, all the things that are required for the fulfilment of that ruling,
The UN calculates at least 60 trucks need to be arriving in Tigray every day, in order to fully meet the requirements of those people caught up in the crisis.
People living in this area are dying because of the lack of water.
By the time Asamoah realized what was going on, the police had already picked up Abena.
Meanwhile, Frank AnnohDompreh has been nominated to Chair the Permanent Committee of Rural Economy, Agriculture, Natural Resources and Environment of the Pan – African Parliament.
But appearing before the vetting committee on Wednesday, June 2, 2021, Mr. Adu Boahen insisted that he does not meddle in the affairs of his company since he resigned in 2017.
So he killed the girl through the trap door, but fortunately, the girl survived, but the bullet hit her on the left breast. The man thought the lady was dead, so he then reloaded the gun and killed himself, dying instantly.”
In this regard, British Airways had to maintain a certain level of service at the Heathrow airport to keep the slots.
Dr. Adjei made the statement while speaking to journalists at the end of a one-day LSM training session held for health workers in Kumasi in the Ashanti Region, on Friday, May 21, 2021.
Kofi and Ama got married when they were very young.
If you are a parent, how can you help your children to reap the benefits of being kind and to avoid being contaminated by the self-absorbed culture that surrounds them?
Former President John Mahama has withdrawn his acceptance of the African Union’s appointment as its High Representative for Somalia.
I try to have balanced meals from all food groups.
They were very confused.
He warned that government against any move to cover up his arrest.
The Headmistress Mrs Naomi Abena Nyarkoa Yeboah Abasi has been accused of collecting feeding fees from students at her private hostel but feeds them with meals meant for boarding students.
Three people were killed, some 200 were injured, and over 1.3 million homes were left without power.
Nor shall a heavier penalty be imposed than the one that was applicable at the time the penal offence was committed.
Both of you could compromise.
Whose responsibility was it in ensuring that the new system worked to serve its purpose of investment?
President Nana Akufo-Addo has already pledged the services of Ghanaian doctors and nurses to India should they be needed at any time.
On Twitter, President Buhari said the crash was a “mortal blow… at a time our armed forces are poised to end the security challenges facing the country”.
With the Ghana School of Law being the nation’s sole institution responsible for professional legal education, and for training eligible persons as lawyers and integrating them into the legal system, President Akufo-Addo expressed his delight about the project taking place under his Presidency.
I didn't think he would come.
The MP urged chiefs and opinion leaders in the area to support initiatives that would facilitate teaching and learning in schools.
With more complex issues, however, a husband and wife can strengthen their bond by brainstorming a solution that perhaps neither of them would have come up with alone.
Education shall be directed to the full development of the human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. It shall promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations, racial or religious groups, and shall further the activities of the United Nations for the maintenance of peace.
Delivering aid to Tigray has been extremely challenging over the past few months, despite the urgent need there.
ASP Godwin Ahianyo also disclosed that four suspected notorious armed robbers in the region have been picked up and remanded into police custody
Write down how you felt during the argument, and have your partner do the same. For example, a husband might write, “I felt that you preferred the company of your friends over my company.”
Teach your children to say “thank you,” not just with words but with genuine appreciation.
What has led to the stalling of the MASLOC ICT Project?
We hadn't intended to work at this company this long.
Children develop real self-worth, not by being constantly told that they are special, but through genuine accomplishments.
It brought together 160 health workers from 18 districts in the region with Obuasi serving as the main hub for the programme.
Residents say, Sampson Ataafi suspected the lady of cheating, and trailed her new boyfriend at about 1:00 am on Tuesday, May 25.
Think: Would you like someone to play with your feelings as if they were some child’s toy—to be picked up for a moment and then quickly abandoned?
She further advised movie producers to copyright their works at National Film Authority to avoid infringements that will go a long way to affect them.
Travel can strengthen your relationships
You and a member of the opposite sex are attracted to each other.
Kwabena asked Abena to help John.
The Ghana National Association of Teachers (GNAT) has urged its members at Achimota School to obey the court ruling regarding the admission of the Rastafarian students.
An Accra High Court on Monday, may 31, 2021 delivered its ruling regarding the denial of two Rastafarian boys; Tyrone Marhguy and Oheneba Nkrabea admission to Achimota School because they failed to cut their dreadlocks.
Humility benefits your child’s future.
Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers.
We are indeed compelled to ask some critical questions at this point.
he added when all stakeholders contribute their quota to improve teaching and learning environment in schools, pupils would perform better.
According to Dr. Tommaso Ranzani, a member of the team that developed the equipment, “we believe this system will be the start for new and improved versions with more advanced features.
Everything rises or falls on the back of the economy
Mr. Eshun further insisted the added audio was created to cause disaffection for him as a senior government official.
The pathologist believes it is problematic for the Allied Health Professional Council to dictate or regulate the functions of physicians and where they should operate from as it was seeking to do with the two hematologists.
The GSS is the lead agency for the conduct of the Census and has divided the country into 51,921 enumeration areas to ensure easy collection of geospatial data across the 260 metropolitan, municipal, and district assemblies.
It has to do with driving recklessly, and breaking all the traffic regulations and trying to bribe the police when you are pulled up.
“Ordinarily, I will not dignify such baseless accusation with a response to give it oxygen in the media space. However, false allegations in the manner presented can be believed by some people.”
Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in which the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration can be fully realized.
Meanwhile, a CNN report indicates that India reported 196,427 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, May 25, the lowest single-day rise in cases since April 14, 2021.
“The armed men in the process killed a customer who was later identified as Collins Dapaah Hayford aged 43.
Hearts of Oak came into the Liberty game with a strong lineup as the club seeks to win the double this season.
To her, it is out of place for women to think they have to sacrifice their family for their career or vice versa.
But Prof. Akosa on Citi TV’s Point of View said the strike is unchanced uponed, given that hematologists are equally qualified to work in laboratories.
We also tend to remember the good parts of our travels and forget the stressful parts in the long term, so travel makes us feel warm and fuzzy inside.
From the direction that he was going in, I would say he was headed to town.
When it comes to dancing, nobody can move like Michael Jackson.
Clearly, when you date someone, you’re affecting that person’s feelings.
“Many young ones who date break up with each other a week or two later,” says a girl named Ama.
According to him, the application of larvicide is crucial in combating the development state of the vector.
That’s why I like to pack my lunch or take a snack with me. That way, I have a lot more control over what I eat
The second phase of Ghana’s COVID-19 vaccination exercise has started across the country but with incidents of undue delays at various centers.
Asamoah abstained from voting.
A wave of loneliness washes over you, and you ask yourself, ‘Why don’t I have any friends?’
I don't want everybody on the Web to be able to access my photos.
The government was obliged to make changes in its foreign policy.
The suspect, who has not commented on the allegations, is set to appear in court on charges of obtaining money by false pretences.
The five food groups include dairy products, proteins, fruits, vegetables, and grains.
In the interim, irresponsible mining must be stopped from completely spiralling out of control.
Meanwhile, Mr. Sukparu has reported the incident to the Sissala West District Police Command for investigation.
I still have the sweater you gave me when I was thirteen.
It’s a lot more, from Software to Hardware and in fact, when we talk about anything ICT or any solution in that regard, I realized that Huawei is the way to go, and bingo they have it all” he added.
Asamoah couldn't think of any reason for not going.
The Appointments Committee has, consequently, invited Memoranda on the nominees from the public
for consideration.
When I’m out and let myself go hungry, I tend to make poor food choices.
In March, residents of Ho were also thrown into a state of shock after a lady believed to be in her mid-twenties was chanced upon dead in a hotel room.
He have recently become accustomed to his way of speaking.
he added the COVID-19 catastrophe knew no boundaries, and urged Ghanaians to continue to abide by the safety protocols to prevent another wave of the disease in the country.
We all look forward to escaping our boring lives and traveling to new, exciting places – and with the Covid-19 vaccine, we finally can.
His hospital has benefitted from 10 units of the Oxygen concentrators.
Vice President Bawumia commended the Omanhene of Essikado Traditional Area, Nana Kwabena
Nketsiah V for his “continuous drive and contribution towards a better Ghanaian society for all”.
President Akufo-Addo on behalf of the government of Ghana and Ghanaians sympathized with Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari and the rest of the population over Lt. Gen. Attahiru’s death and that of seven other officials.
Meanwhile, Frank AnnohDompreh has been nominated to Chair the Permanent Committee of Rural Economy, Agriculture, Natural Resources and Environment of the Pan – African Parliament.
The Supreme Court’s order followed an application by the AG, maintaining that the state had fulfilled all financial obligations to NDK with regard to certain payments and interests based on the court’s order.
People speak so much about the need for leaving a better planet for our children, and forget the urgency of leaving better children for our planet.
The UN estimates that overall, 75% of people in need in Tigray are now reachable; in May, this figure was only 30%.
The shake-up is part of ongoing reforms to decentralize the licensing regime and enhance monitoring of mining operations.
Tell your relatives and friends about your commitment to your new family.
Financial analysts on GBC's Current Affairs Programme ‘Talking point’ have urged the Central Bank to put in place strict directives and measures to prevent recurrence of liquidation in the financial sector.
Vice President Bawumia indicated that a new fiscal regime similar to the one prevailing in the oil sector
would soon be introduced in the mining sector.
“It is also to ensure how to control the anopheles mosquito in limiting the number of vectors.”
Having benefited from such a facility, the present initiative serves as a kind gesture of gratitude from Ghanaians towards India.
I am surprised to find that my wife and I are so different! For example, I like to get up early, but she likes to stay up late.
Other areas of Ghana's economy such as manufacturing according to him must also be given the needed attention adding that auditors have a big role to play in the financial sector.
Kwabena drank three cups of coffee after dinner. "No wonder he couldn't sleep."
The second phase of Ghana’s COVID-19 vaccination exercise has started across the country but with incidents of undue delays at various centers.
In view of the images of the violence of the raging waters in Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany, France, and other parts of Europe, how could we remain indifferent?
The missing cat has not been found yet.
Work is expected to be completed in 10 months.
Also, I don’t think it’s wrong occasionally to have a candy bar or eat fast food. But that shouldn’t be all a person’s diet consists of.
Mr. Frank Adu Jnr, a former Managing Director of CalBank Limited, told the GNA that Ghanaians were deeply touched by the plight of their siblings, hence their decision to support them with oxygen concentrators.
He further explained that Ghana’s roads would not have been in their current state if previous governments had tackled the road sector in a serious and robust manner like the way President Akufo-Addo’s administration is doing.
Abena asked Asamoah to turn off the computer and prepare dinner.
The union thus pointed out that it will not countenance any more of these avoidable deaths and shall thus not hesitate to withdraw its services if urgent and robust steps are not taken to eliminate and prevent these needless accidents from becoming a recurrent feature of the workplace.
This marks a decline from the first week of May when the country was reporting more than 300,000 cases daily.
The President was expectant that the completion of the Law Village will expand access to legal education, without compromising on its quality, and, ultimately, assist in the administration of justice throughout the country.
A child who is raised to embrace that principle is more likely to realize that everyone is superior to him in one way or another.
You nod “OK,” but did you really hear what was said? Likely not.
The GSS is training 280 persons out of which 160 would be selected as field officers to enumerate structures and residents of the District.
We want him to lead the lawful Republic of Ghana in accordance with his oath to uphold the constitution and the laws of Ghana and to hold himself accountable to the laws of Ghana.
According to him, those allegations are “outright and blatant lies.”
Whereas the peoples of the United Nations have in the Charter reaffirmed their faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the equal rights of men and women and have determined to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom,
The MP cut the sod last Saturday, May 23, for work to commence on the GH¢800,000 projects.
However, according to the Biomimetic Robotics Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the complexity of this design cannot be easily duplicated with current materials and engineering knowledge.
he added such projects have given Tinjase town and surrounding communities a facelift.
In any case, the statement explained that parties to a unitization agreement have to contribute to the costs and liabilities deriving from the development and production of hydrocarbons, related facilities, and other expenses
She added that he defiled her several times. ASP Larye said in view of the trauma the 10-year-old has
endured over that period, a Psychologist has been engaged to counsel her.
Work is expected to be completed in 10 months.
It has also embarked on a digitization exercise to streamline all of its data records and plans to transition to an entirely online system within the next three to six months. This will significantly reduce delays in the licensing process and will eliminate the paper application, with all clients expected to complete applications online.
According to the headmistress, she acted in good faith to help the students especially the girls who were wandering in town in search of accommodation.
When you feel stressed or “down,” traveling can make you happier and help you improve your life in so many ways.
I think unemployment and other factors are giving birth to this high-level rate of crimes and as a country, we are sitting on a timebomb”.
Aba always checks the caller ID before he answers the phone.
Our work matters. It affects prochanced uponly the ordering of the state. Promotion of the rule of law is at the heart of this Association’s vocation.
Perhaps they simply enjoy being with a special friend of the opposite sex, without any intention of marriage.
Such regenerating materials are equipped with tiny parallel tubes containing two chemicals that “bleed” when any damage occurs. As the two chemicals mix, they form a gel that spreads across the damaged areas, closing cracks and holes. As the gel solidifies, it forms a tough substance that restores the material’s original strength.
A joint operation by the counter-terrorism unit of the Ghana Police Service in the Northern Region led to the arrest of two people with an AK-47 rifle and pump-action guns in Tamale.
“We heard of the leakage of the exams, we heard of invigilators being compromised, we heard many things, and we also saw the students come out and speak about, ‘this is not what we were told will happen’, now these students have As, and we are excited?
An unknown woman in an audio circulating on social media claims to have picked some information that the President had plans to sell the Art Centre.
With more complex issues, however, a husband and wife can strengthen their bond by brainstorming a solution that perhaps neither of them would have come up with alone.
According to him, in all his public service, he has always put the interest of Ghana first in every decision he has taken.
He added that, “I see very experienced senior people in the chamber that is why we have to fall on such experiential knowledge and logic for us not to be caught in this quagmire of confusion”.
Asamoah is still in love with Abena.
His comment comes as a response to the ongoing speculation by some Ghanaians insisting that aside military officials unjustly destroying excavators and other mining equipment of miners, pieces of gold chanced upon on the site are seized.
Akua admitted that he always has trouble remembering names.
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.
Speaking to Citi Business News on the recent development, the President of GUTA, Dr. Joseph Obeng, welcomed the lowering of the policy rate but charged the government to introduce a system that will compel banks to reduce their interest rates in a manner that’s commensurate with the drop in the policy rate.
It may appear, though, that many think only of themselves.
Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in which the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration can be fully realized.
Talk to someone about your loneliness. Don’t keep your feelings hidden. Chances are, there are several other people you know who feel the same way you do. Sometimes all you need is one friend to keep you afloat
Researchers at the Pine Street Foundation, a cancer research institute, say that the dog’s brain and nose work together to be “one of the most sophisticated odor detection devices on the planet.
The new prices affect all forms of transport including Inter-city (trotro), Intercity (long distance) and shared taxis
“The problem we have in this country sadly is that our medical laboratory scientists do not appreciate their limitation. Two hematologists- where should they go and practice?
Coffee prices have jumped almost 50% in six months.
Kwabena advised us to leave early and avoid the morning traffic.
Lonely people want attention, and they can get to a point where they don’t care who that attention comes from. They just want to feel wanted. But some people will make you feel wanted and then use you. Then you’ll feel lonelier than ever.
Nobody invited me to the party.
There’s no lender who’ll give you money for consumption so if we don’t see infrastructure to go with the monies borrowed, then it’s been used for something else.” His comments come after the Information Minister, Kojo Oppong Nkrumah said the Akufo-Addo government had to embark on extra borrowing in order to get the Ghanaian economy functioning despite the harsh impact of COVID-19.
Don't joke about that.
Children who are considerate are more likely to make friends and to enjoy stable relationships.
You don’t have to agree with everything your partner says or believes, but you have to be honestly open to considering his or her position
Our feelings are usually preceded by our thoughts, and we can take control of our thoughts.
Mr. Mahama’s appointment as the AU envoy was welcomed by the Council of Presidential Candidates of Somalia, and the Coalition of Somalia’s Federal Member States.
Although she’s surrounded by people who care about her, she still feels invisible and unlovable. She masks her low self-worth with a stern exterior.
Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks.
The incident happened at Alavanyo Wududi in the Hohoe Municipality of the Volta Region in the early hours of Wednesday, May 26, 2021.
The agama’s tail may help engineers design more-agile robotic vehicles that can be used to search for survivors in the aftermath of an earthquake or other catastrophe.
Sometimes a sense of entitlement can be traced back to how a person was raised.
The nominee for Minister of State at the Finance Ministry, Charles Adu Boahen, has disclosed that the COVID-19 pandemic cost the country about GHS21 billion.
“There are many of them who are in a haste to assume office even while Parliament has not even considered their nomination.
I began this address by indicating that I wanted us to be frank in our discussions about ourselves and about our conduct in the practice of our profession.
he added such projects have given Tinjase town and surrounding communities a facelift.
The government in its efforts to combat illegal mining launched the third phase of the new ‘Operation Halt’.
After talking things through, my husband and I like to say, ‘Let’s go back to being friends.’
When your husband feels that he is not being shown respect, ask him how you can improve, and take note of the suggestion.
Whereas disregard and contempt for human rights have resulted in barbarous acts which have outraged the conscience of mankind, and the advent of a world in which human beings shall enjoy freedom of speech and belief and freedom from fear and want has been proclaimed as the highest aspiration of the common people,
But striving for wealth does not bring contentment.
“When completed, these facilities will help to decongest the high number of pupils in the classrooms, promote reading culture among pupils and also provide comfort for teachers who sit under trees to mark scripts,” he added.
The Zoomlion General Manager for Ashanti East, Jane Appiah, indicated that LSM was one of the best interventions in the control of malaria.
The only weapons I have in my home are water pistols.
Granted, right now the very idea that your “little” boy or girl will become independent may arouse your skepticism. You might ask:
The Vice Chancellor of the Gimpa Prof Samuel Afful says “the reports reaching his office indicate that some supervisors hardly give quality guidance to the students assigned to them and this does not help in the production of quality thesis.”
What's the nearest planet to the sun?
Other areas of Ghana's economy such as manufacturing according to him must also be given the needed attention adding that auditors have a big role to play in the financial sector.
“With the overall objective of creating a favourable environment to spur private sector-led growth, the Government of Ghana recognizes the importance of a substantial allocation of development capital to critical economic sectors at sustainable interest rates and longer tenures.
President Akufo-Addo reiterated that the provision of this facility signals the determination of Ghana to continue partnering with the EU, with the President informing Dr. Hoyer that Ghana will fall on the EIB to continue to finance other projects in the pipeline, as the country works to recover from the impact of COVID-19.
“We have to literally break the banks, borrowed money that we have never borrowed before, exceed some of the very fine statistical limits that we have put in place.
The two have been remanded by the court, whereas a third suspect, Alhaji Aminu Ayuba, the Yepalisi Chief, has been granted a police enquiry bail of GHS 200,000 and will reappear on May 31, 2021.
combat the debt, not each other. A husband named Fiifi describes how he and his wife worked together: “We viewed our debt as a mutual enemy.”
The Vice Chancellor expressed the sentiments in a speech read for him by the Principal of the Tamale Campus of UDS, Prof. Sylvester Z. Galaa at the matriculation of graduate students pursuing sandwich programs in Tamale.
A little bit of luck sometimes leads to an unexpected success.
The Ashanti Regional branch of the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GAMLS), and others in some regions, have also declared an indefinite strike in solidarity with their colleagues at KATH
Interchanges cost $10,000000 – $55000000 per kilometer and reconstruction asphalt costs $1,200,000-1,400,000.”
Learning to maintain a excited, balanced marriage relationship is like learning to ride a bicycle.
President Akufo-Addo on behalf of the government of Ghana and Ghanaians sympathized with Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari and the rest of the population over Lt. Gen. Attahiru’s death and that of seven other officials.
The crash comes three months to the day after a Nigerian military plane crashed short of a runway in the capital Abuja, killing all seven people on board.
His comment comes as a response to the ongoing speculation by some Ghanaians insisting that aside military officials unjustly destroying excavators and other mining equipment of miners, pieces of gold chanced upon on the site are seized.
So be sure your intentions are honorable
Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in association with others.
We blazed the trail for participatory democracy and I am confident that out of the ashes of this legal setback, we will mobilize and rekindle the struggle for a better democratic Ghana.”
What is the purpose of dating?
Accra Circuit Court on Wednesday convicted a 47-year-old woman for possessing Indian hemp.
In Madagascar, the Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA) is training people to grow successful vegetable gardens, raise poultry, and make handcrafts to supplement lost income during the COVID-19 pandemic.
DBG is an integral feature of the GH¢100 billion Ghana Cares ‘Obaatampa’ Project, which will see the revitalization of the Ghanaian economy following the onset of COVID-19.
When a building being constructed collapses and lives are lost, the cause can, in many cases, be traced to someone or some people breaking the law, or cutting corners. When a road that was built barely a year ago develops potholes, someone or some people have been breaking the law or cutting corners. The story of environmental degradation occasioned by illegal mining, what we call galamsey, is a clear case of people breaking the law.
This does not mean that you should criticize your child for every mistake.
A life was lost on May 17, 2021 after an underground mining pit which is part of the concession of Anglogold Ashanti Obuasi Mine, caved in and trapped some workers.
According to the headmistress, she acted in good faith to help the students especially the girls who were wandering in town in search of accommodation.
In a press release announcing the winners, the judges of the London Book Fair International Excellence award wrote, “It really struck us as an amazing story of transformation and an example of how library services tackle some of the most pressing issues confronting their users.
Additionally, he expressed appreciation to the MP for understanding a number of infrastructure projects in the town.
Compared with other topics, arguments about debt and finances last longer, generate more yelling and hitting, and are more likely to carry over into other issues
You can avoid these conflicts. First, though, you need to understand why you might miss important details in what your partner is saying—even though you think that you are listening
Vice President Bawumia commended the Omanhene of Essikado Traditional Area, Nana Kwabena
Nketsiah V for his “continuous drive and contribution towards a better Ghanaian society for all”.
She added, “The way the courses are designed and instructed is very practical, and i realize it engages the students in a lot of hands-on training, something most students at the University have given positive feedback on”.
"Of course, the beginning is always a little more difficult to adapt to a new style of play, which changes everything, but we have everything we need to improve, to continue working and start the season well."
That's according to the NHIS's Upper West Regional Director, Abass Suleymana.
It has also reported 3,511 fatalities, on Tuesday, the lowest single-day death toll since May 4,2021.
Boateng bought an engagement ring for Abena with money he inherited from his grandfather.
According to him, this forms part of government’s broader plan of improving the country’s road network and bring development close to Ghanaians.
The most common first name in the world is Mohammed.
How many times do I have to tell you not to eat candy just before dinner?
Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay.
Dozens of miners are reported trapped in the illegal mining pit.
Can you think of ways that the hurtful speech could have been replaced with kind expressions?
He suddenly hit on a good idea while he was taking a bath.
He then charged the police to hunt down the perpetrators and bring them to book.
If your daughter scores well on a school test, commend her. If she gets a low grade, do not automatically blame the teacher.
These nerves are sensitive to even the slightest movement of air.
Our target was protecting water bodies and their tributaries, not your license."
The woman tried on one hat after another, then left the hat shop.
The complaint has also featured prominently lately in the the reports of external examiners at the university
On Saturday, October 6, 2018, a magnitude 5.9 earthquake struck the northern region of Haiti, killing 17 and injuring over 300.
Many fathers and mothers thus began lavishing a constant flow of praise upon their children, even when those children did nothing particularly praiseworthy.
But Prof. Akosa on Citi TV’s Point of View said the strike is unchanced uponed, given that hematologists are equally qualified to work in laboratories.
Why are we just splitting heads because medical laboratory scientists believe the laboratory space is for them. It is not for them,” Mr. Akosa insisted.
Kwabena asked Abena not to make any long-distance calls on his phone.
Really, dating is any social activity in which your romantic interest is focused on one particular person and that person’s interest is focused on you.
How? By indulging their child’s every whim, while hesitating to administer any kind of discipline.
Brazil is surrounded by ten countries and the Atlantic Ocean.
The new programme creates a calendar of two semesters in a year for the SHS 1 class, containing 81 days per each semester and 41 days of vacation for a sandwich class.
In an interview with Y107.9FM’s Rev Erskine on the Y LeaderBoard Series, she, however, revealed that at a point in one’s life, “there are many times you will have to sacrifice work to be with family.”
“The Allied Health Professional Council regulates Allied Health Professionals, and the list is clearly stated in the schedule of Act 857 and it lists those who are allied health professionals – you must be a lab technician, you must be a medical laboratory technologist or a medical laboratory scientist.
Humility benefits your child’s future.
Tickets are valid for just two days, including the day they are purchased on.
On Monday, India became the third country to top 300,000 deaths from the virus, after Brazil and the United States. India has reported a total of 26,948,874 Covid-19 cases, including 307,231 deaths. There are 2,586,782 confirmed active cases in the country, according to the health ministry.
Dr. Bossman Asare in an interview gave assurance that transparent elections would be conducted in the country to ensure that those that are voted for are those who get the lead..
The police say their investigations indicate that the suspects were recruited by Yepalisi Naa, Alhaji Aminu Ayuba, to escort a newly installed chief from Banvim to the Bagliga community.
The police subsequently retrieved one gold detector and three motorbikes suspected to have been stolen from their respective owners.
According to the Commission, preliminary investigations indicate that the small-scale miners were working illegally at the site which falls within the prospecting license of Persus.
The government in its efforts to combat illegal mining launched the third phase of the new ‘Operation Halt’.
If the universe is full of stars, why doesn't their light continually light up the entire sky?
It is easier to be forgiving when you accept your partner for who he or she is, flaws and all.
Germany's federal disaster relief organization said it was very unlikely that any more survivors would be chanced upon.
I shouldn't have to put up with this noise.He demanded that the savage dog be kept tied up.
He, thus, charged the nominees to respect the provisions of the Constitution regarding their nomination and subsequent approval or rejection by the House.
He then commanded everyone to lie down, and he took all the money,” Charity narrated the incident amidst tears.
If your son receives a traffic ticket, it might be best to let him pay the fine out of his allowance or salary.
Humility benefits your child’s future.
The entire Law Village Project, according to the President, will cost about US$55 million.
We have already engaged with the Ministry of Health through the Ghana Health Service, and they had an engagement with Dr. Anthony Nsiah Asare, who is the Presidential Advisor on Health, and a confirmation has been given that all of the 85,000 officials that we are going to engage from the beginning of 31st May 2021, will be vaccinated. All our 85,000 supervisors will go through the exercise.”
This reciprocal visit follows on the heels of an earlier visit by Mr. Farouk Aliu Mahama, MP for Yendi to the Indian High Commissioner, to discuss issues of mutual concern, particularly the Yendi Water Project and other investment opportunities.
If possible, think of a specific circumstance in which your mate felt that your speech was hurtful.
The incident happened as the plane was trying to land in bad weather, the military said.
Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in association with others.
he added, “the security men were deployed by the Company to protect the site so people don’t come around to steal but they were beaten by the military with the butt of the rifles”.
Ever since international gold trading started over 400 years ago in the ‘Gold Coast’ at ‘El Mina’ has the winning of the precious metal become an existentialist threat like now.
“We are not content with how the government has handled our issue so far, we are becoming more and more frustrated.”
So far as the laboratory space has different professionals, the headship can be based on competence, so we cannot sit here and say that the laboratory should be for laboratory scientists alone.
“There are many mines that are operating and for years, they tell us they have not made any profit so they cannot pay any dividend to government. But they keep mining and mining.
An oxygen concentrator is a device that concentrates the oxygen from a gas supply by selectively removing nitrogen to supply an oxygen-enriched gas stream.
Each of you make a two-column list. In the first column, write down which aspects of the issue you feel most strongly about. In the second column, list the aspects on which you feel that you could compromise.
This comes after prices at the pumps in Ghana killed up by 12% due to the introduction of some taxes, increases in margins by the National Petroleum Authority, the industry, and price increases on the international market.
Children who are considerate are more likely to make friends and to enjoy stable relationships.
The Chief Executive Officer of Hubtel limited, Alex Bram was speaking to City BusinessNews on the sidelines of the opening of the company’s office in Kumasi.
Humble people are respectful. They do not behave arrogantly, nor do they expect others to treat them as special.
He then gives his wife the silent treatment, shunning her in the hope that she will break down and concede to his wishes.
Gen. Attahiru, 54, only took up his post in January in an overhaul of the military’s top brass.
Those of us who came here were asked to write our names and form the queue so that we will be served in that order.
This right may not be invoked in the case of prosecutions genuinely arising from non-political crimes or from acts contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.
ADRA is stepping in to help vulnerable individuals grow nutritious food to feed their families.
When you focus on effort, however, you foster resilience.
Dr. Kumah made the statement while speaking to journalists at the end of a one-day PEG training session held for health workers in Takoradi in the Western Region, on Friday, May 21, 2021.
Anger that is allowed to fester can be like a disease that harms you from inside.
Speaking to Citi News, the National President of the group, Zakariah Mohammed, says the government has failed to adequately address their concerns.
There will be innocent victims.
The Minerals Commission in a statement indicated that it visited the site around 11:00 a.m on the day of the incident, and that its Inspectorate Division has commenced full investigations into it.
Whether on the phone or face-to-face, in the open or in secret, if you and a friend of the opposite sex have a special romantic understanding and communicate regularly, it’s dating.
A week after severe flooding hit western Europe, devastating Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands, German officials said Thursday they fear the 158 people still missing there may not be chanced upon.
Each one of us was given three hundred dollars.
The 29-year-old has caught the attention of several of Europe's largest clubs, including Barcelona and Manchester United.
Some people collect friends the way others collect figurines. But having a roomful of collectibles never made anyone feel loved.
But the IT consultant is disturbed that Ghana and other African countries “tend to leapfrog on technological advancement and not going through the same pathway that other advanced countries use.”
When further pushed by the Minority Leader, Mr. Haruna Iddrisu as to what percentage that represents in GPD terms, Mr. Adu Boahene stated that it represents 13% of Ghana’s GPD.
In order to have a right to the hydrocarbons produced and in proceeds from the production, each party must first pay its share of the costs of producing hydrocarbons from the unitized field.”
“As many more lawyers are trained, it is my hope that, indeed, many more of them will join the public sector to enhance the quality of legal service delivery in the sector. I assure all of you that this project is the beginning of greater things to come for the Ghana School of Law. Government’s commitment to leaving a lasting legacy in professional legal education in Ghana is absolute,” he added.
Some people eliminate one or more food groups from their diet, thinking that doing so will help them lose weight.
So the reason we are borrowing 60 billion, 70 billion, and 280 billion; is not because Ghana needs it, but because some people need the money.
By giving such correction in the spirit of love, you will teach him humility without hurting his self-respect.​
No one enjoys living with a partner who believes “it’s either my way or the highway.
Proteins can help your body combat infection and also build and repair tissues.
We all knew Asamoah was in trouble, but none of us did anything to help.
In a country where three-out-of-four people are poor, nearly two-thirds of households reported a decline in income since the beginning of the pandemic.
We blazed the trail for participatory democracy and I am confident that out of the ashes of this legal setback, we will mobilize and rekindle the struggle for a better democratic Ghana.”
For many couples, the result is tension.
Others are convinced that they are special and deserve to be treated that way—and then they become dejected when they realize that the world does not share their view.
Shall we go now?
Asamoah and Abena kissed passionately.
Her words hurt me because I love my stepchildren as if they were my own.
The population is great.
This reciprocal visit follows on the heels of an earlier visit by Mr. Farouk Aliu Mahama, MP for Yendi to the Indian High Commissioner, to discuss issues of mutual concern, particularly the Yendi Water Project and other investment opportunities.
If something similar is happening in your home, do not hastily conclude that your child is becoming an irreformable rebel.
The Chief of Tinjase, Ubor Mamunin II, lauded Mr. Bless for initiating the school projects.
Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits.
Limit your child’s use of social media.
Managing Director of GCB Bank, John Kofi Adomakoh is promising a leadership that will transform the bank as the dominant player in the Ghanaian banking industry.
He doesn't need to get up so early.
If my daughter is not dependable enough to keep her curfew, how will she keep a job?”
“One of the things I want to do is to engage civil society to present drafts on the proposed amendments that will better serve the business community.
In his address to some personnel during his visit to some illegal mining sites, the Chief of Defence Staff took notice that the illegal miners now mine at night under the protection of heavily armed men.
She is also heard saying she proceeded to meet with Kofi Eshun in the company of some chiefs in a bid to have the plans changed, but Kofi Eshun disrespected them.
The first week of the 2021 Citi Business Festival, is focusing on the digital economy – Building a cashless society and the opportunities for business and job creation.
The Union has also urged the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources, and by extension the Minerals Commission and its Inspectorate Division, to as a matter of urgency conduct a thorough investigation into the recent underground accident that saw three of its valued members working in the same area trapped, out of which two managed to escape and one still missing since Tuesday May 18, 2021.
“Many young ones who date break up with each other a week or two later,” says a girl named Ama.
When a road that was built barely a year ago develops potholes, someone or some people have been breaking the law or cutting corners.
The incident happened between Jefisi and Bulu at about 7:50 pm when the MP was returning from a funeral he attended at Jefisi.
AngloGold Ashanti reported last week “with deep regret”, that an employee of its mining contractor at the Obuasi Gold Mine in Ghana, is “missing after a fall of ground in one of the operation’s mining stopes”.
You will have to pay us something commensurate to what you have taken out.”
Government had also assured as by a letter from the Ministry of Finance that the suspension of the quarterly income tax paid by owners of trotros and taxis will be extended to cover intercity commuter vehicles to reduce the operational cost.
No one believes what Asamoah says anymore.
Because of being taught to focus on their own desires, they find it hard as adults to form lasting relationships.
A Banking Consultant, Nana Otuo Acheampong said it is about time, premium was put on public financial literacy education, to guard against the collapse of the sector.
Suppose your daughter has a knack for drawing. Naturally, you want to praise her for this, which will motivate her to hone her skill even more.
Boston is my home.
Kwabena asked Abena not to make any long-distance calls on his phone.
President Akufo-Addo in September In the previous year launched the Free Senior High school, (SHS), policy which provided 90 thousand more students gain access to Senior High school.
“The Union will also want to use this opportunity to renew its call and advocacy on the need for government to prioritize the ratification of International Labour Organization Convention 176 (Safety and Health in the Mines Convention) in order to further tighten and align the industry’s health and safety regulatory framework to globally acceptable standards”, it said in a statement.
Operation Halt taskforce on Sunday, May 16 2021, invaded the mining site of Kate Gyamfua at Akyem Pameng in Atew West District in the Eastern region and set ablaze eight excavators, a bulldozer and dozens of water pumping machines.
Encourage your child to apologize quickly.
You need to have a life where you are actually balancing family and career and I normally tell the young ones or young ladies that you cannot sacrifice one for the other.
According to him, it wasn’t just the NPP executive’s company that had been affected by the work of the task force.
Following an agitation by citizens, the National Petroleum Authority rescinded its decision to increase the fuel margin to 17 pesewas per litre
They are also more likely to be content.
If your son experiences the breakup of a romance, comfort him—but at the appropriate time help him to reflect on questions such as, ‘In hindsight, has this experience revealed any ways in which I need to grow?
“There are many of them who are in a hurry to assume office even while Parliament has not even considered their nomination.
That kind of compromise builds a ‘team’ atmosphere rather than a power struggle
I assure all of you that this project is the start of greater things to come for the Ghana School of Law.
There are times when I yield to my husband to make him excited, but at times he does the same for me,
Its tenets seemed plausible: If a little praise is good for kids, a lot of praise is better.
It is interesting to note that she does not put out any details of the alleged meeting.”
“She does not state the date of the meeting, the place where the meeting took place, and the names of the elders and chiefs who accompanied her to the alleged meeting.
Note what is conveyed by body language, eye movement, and tone of voice.
We are confident that the analysis and the resulting report will allow the parties to progress discussions toward an agreeable, commercial solution of the matter”, it added.
Nor shall a heavier penalty be imposed than the one that was applicable at the time the penal offence was committed.
The story of environmental degradation occasioned by illegal mining, what we call galamsey, is a clear case of people breaking the law.
Eni is trying to find out if there is a viable solution that could be beneficial to all parties.
Everybody was gathered in the living room.
Prior to the second wave of COVID-19, Ghana had become one of the first recipients of the Indian manufactured COVID-19 vaccines under WHO’s Covax program.
I think this is the role a bank like GCB must lead, Mr. Adomakoh told Joy Business Odelia Ntiamoah in an exclusive interview.
Each time a conflict arises, you and your partner unleash a torrent of criticism at each other.
With more complex issues, however, a husband and wife can strengthen their bond by brainstorming a solution that perhaps neither of them would have come up with alone.
Deputy Chairman of the Electoral Commission, Dr. Eric Bossman Asare has assured Ghanaians that it will deliver very fair elections at all levels.
I have put on two kilograms this summer.
The pathologist believes it is problematic for the Allied Health Professional Council to dictate or regulate the functions of physicians and where they should operate from as it was seeking to do with the two hematologists.
“The Allied Health Professional Council regulates Allied Health Professionals, and the list is clearly stated in the schedule of Act 857 and it lists those who are allied health professionals – you must be a lab technician, you must be a medical laboratory technologist or a medical laboratory scientist. These are allied health professionals. As a medical doctor, I am not an allied health professional so under no circumstance can that regulatory agency regulate my practice. This is the mistake that unfortunately, the allied health professionals are making.”
When agamas jump from a coarse surface​—which provides grip—​they first stabilize their body and keep their tail downward.
Please show me your injured arm.
My husband, Yaw, was so depressed about our debt that he slept most of the day
Keep healthy snacks available instead of just grabbing a bag of potato chips with a soft drink.
Travel reduces stress
The Armed Forces have not taken any gold.
EACH day presents people with numerous opportunities to do kind things for others.
The two have been remanded by the court, whereas a third suspect, Alhaji Aminu Ayuba, the Yepalisi Chief, has been granted a police enquiry bail of GHS 200,000 and will reappear on May 31, 2021.
“This kind gesture is mainly to show that Ghanaians from Africa are thinking of our Indian brothers and sisters and keeping their well being in our prayers,” he added.
The flagbearer of the National Democratic Congress (NDC) in the 2020 polls, Mr. John Dramani Mahama has assured Ghanaians that he won’t compromise the nation’s stability.
Two hematologists- where should they go and practice? Hematologists are doctors who have trained in blood diseases. So far as the laboratory space has different professionals, the headship can be based on competence, so we cannot sit here and say that the laboratory should be for laboratory scientists alone.
The court was told that Yeboah applied a cream into the girl’s vagina, which gave her a burning sensation, after which she inserted his finger into her and defiled her.
In a memo, it said the airline had already made its decision known without much explanation.
These might include not eating enough, binge eating, or denying yourself an occasional treat
A wife named Jill says: “When I know I’m a hundred percent at fault, it’s easy to say ‘I’m sorry.’ But when we both said things we regret, it’s difficult.
It takes planning to eat healthier, and oftentimes healthy food has to be prepared at home. But it’s worth the effort in the long run, and it can also save you money
The group said the invasion of foreigners in retail business is collapsing their businesses.
“The Allied Health Professional Council regulates Allied Health Professionals, and the list is clearly stated in the schedule of Act 857 and it lists those who are allied health professionals – you must be a lab technician, you must be a medical laboratory technologist or a medical laboratory scientist.
“I was here around 5.30am. It is almost 12:00pm, and I have just got vaccinated.
This year’s census will be the sixth conducted in Ghana since the post-independence.
“We don’t want the raw bauxite being taken out of Ghana anymore. We will build a refinery here to
refine the bauxite to alumina, take it to VALCO, and get aluminium and you will see the massive increase
in value. This is going to be transformational,” the Vice President stated.
The pandemic has pushed 1.38 million people into extreme poverty in Madagascar, according to the World Bank.
For me, should continue and then we would ensure that the lawyer for Tyrone would enforce that and then whatever we need to ensure that their fundamental rights are protected, we will also go ahead and do that,” he added.
The MP urged chiefs and opinion leaders in the area to support initiatives that would facilitate teaching and learning in schools.
In any case, the statement explained that parties to a unitization agreement have to contribute to the costs and liabilities deriving from the development and production of hydrocarbons, related facilities, and other expenses
Kwabena thought the music was too loud, but he was too tired to get up and turn the volume down.
The 2020 total transactions represented about 84% growth from the value recorded in 2019.
What would you like for supper?
Flour is made into bread.
The population is great.
The police chanced upon a dead body in an abandoned car near the park.
Ghana’s President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, has expressed prochanced upon commiserations to the Federal Republic of Nigeria following the unfortunate passing of its Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru and several others.
Phase One of the project complementing the facilities of the Accra Main Campus located at Makola, at a cost of US$4 million).
Exempting your child from family chores might give him the message, ‘You are too important to do this!’ Family duties should come first, and playing second.
A child who is raised to embrace that principle is more likely to realize that everyone is superior to him in one way or another.
“Our hearts go out to all of their families and may their souls rest in peace”, Akufo-Addo tweeted.
This right may not be invoked in the case of prosecutions genuinely arising from non-political crimes or from acts contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.
Mr Quansah made the call during his turn at the Assembly’s Town Hall Meeting at Sogakope.
Some of the contractors have moved from sites because the contractual agreement hasn’t been met.
The President indicated that the design and operation of the Bank, “which has been on the drawing board for the last two years”, will satisfy the highest standards, scrutiny and best practices of Development Banks across the world, assuring further that the €170 million facility from the EIB will be used for the purposes for which it was sought.”
Everyone has the right to an effective remedy by the competent national tribunals for acts violating the fundamental rights granted him by the constitution or by law.
“The Ministry of Health was handling it earlier, so we were expecting that it would be solved by now, but as it stands, there is a need for us to step in.
So the answer to all three questions is yes.
We have had regular elections and sitting governments have been defeated, and there have been peaceful transfers of power.
Similar stories have also been reported in the early part of 2021.
“These illegal activities were mostly being done in the night or under the cover of darkness protected by armed guards, as used cartridges were chanced upon at the sites.
A wave of loneliness washes over you, and you ask yourself, ‘Why don’t I have any friends?’
Mr. Eshun has rejected outrightly all the claims by the unidentified woman.
In a post on social media, President Akufo-Addo said:
“I express the deep condolences of the government and people of Ghana and of myself personally to President Buhari and the government and the people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on the shocking, tragic deaths of Nigeria’s Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru.”
It is interesting to note that she does not put out any details of the alleged meeting.”
We'll go after we eat.
At the event, she lauded movie directors who strive through the odds to shoot movies.
Mr. Mahama urged his supporters not to give up on their dreams for the party to come to power.
The success of your future relationships will depend on your ability to communicate and negotiate, and there’s no better place to cultivate such skills than within your family.
We have not heard from him since In the previous year.
If you have extra money at the end of the month, decide together what you are going to do with it
It has to do with sharp practice and unethical behaviour by some lawyers, which jeopardise the administration of justice and the interests of ordinary people. It has to do with judicial corruption, which, a priori, constitutes a violation of the judicial oath.
Many children raised with unconditional praise have grown up unprepared for disappointments, criticism, and occasional failure.
Children should appreciate nature and how much we depend on it for survival.
A life was lost on May 17, 2021 after an underground mining pit which is part of the concession of Anglogold Ashanti Obuasi Mine, caved in and trapped some workers.
I found a bird whose wing was severely damaged.
Whereas the peoples of the United Nations have in the Charter reaffirmed their faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the equal rights of men and women and have determined to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom,
“… I began this address by indicating that I wanted us to be frank in our discussions about ourselves and about our conduct in the practice of our profession.
It affects everyday life. It is about breaking rules and regulations in many aspects of our lives, and wanting to, and, indeed, circumventing the laws that are meant to guide our society.
No laws in Ghana today permit the burning of excavators,” he lamented
According to him, GHS18 billion of the added amount was funded through borrowing, with the remaining amount sourced from grants and the Stabilisation Fund.
Try to avoid debt and spend only the money you have.
You're wrong. That's not the case.
Now most girls absent themselves from school during the period of menstruation.
The facts, as presented by the prosecutor, Chief Inspector Kofi Atimbire, were that on April 16, 2018, around 7: 30 p.m, the victim’s parents started looking for her when it dawned on them that she was not around, and nobody knew her whereabouts.
She looked at several dresses and decided on the most expensive one.
“So if you go out there to mine, I cannot guarantee your safety when the soldiers are going to apprehend you.
When a building being constructed collapses and lives are lost, the cause can, in many cases, be traced to someone or some people breaking the law, or cutting corners.
The President indicated that the design and operation of the Bank, “which has been on the drawing board for the last two years”, will satisfy the highest standards, scrutiny and best practices of Development Banks across the world, assuring further that the €170 million facility from the EIB will be used for the purposes for which it was sought.”
How can you keep relationships with the adult children from damaging your marriage?
When most professional programs on campus became dormant during the pandemic, more and more students continued to register to take the Huawei ICT Academy program due to the Innovative Study at Home initiative which Huawei introduced for the students and instructors to be able to take the course irrespective of their location in Ghana.
he added that he would let us know later about the results of the examination.
Write down all of your expenses, no matter how small, for a month. That will help you to figure out where your money is going and to identify any unnecessary expenditures.
Mr. Frank Adu Jnr, a former Managing Director of CalBank Limited, told the GNA that Ghanaians were deeply touched by the plight of their siblings, hence their decision to support them with oxygen concentrators.
It's always a pleasure to see you.
Loneliness is like quicksand. The more you wallow in it, the harder it is to get out of it. If you let it consume your thinking, soon you’ll have a full-fledged pity party that no one else wants to go to.
he added the roads ministry is moving the defect liability period from 12 months to five years.
Despite the full-time requirements, we hope that you will find time outside of the training to reflect on what you are being taught here”, he added.
The Ghana Statistical Service says it is collaborating with the Ghana Health Service to vaccinate about 85,000 field officials who will be involved in the 2021 Population and Housing Census, before the start of the exercise.
Four people were in the car when the accident happened.
Nor shall a heavier penalty be imposed than the one that was applicable at the time the penal offence was committed.
The Minority Leader is of the view that burning excavators is illegal and that the AG, Godfred Dame, must explain to the House, the rationale behind such an approach.
What was meant to be a romantic date turned ugly,” the DCI said, posting on Twitter bizarre photos of items allegedly linked to witchcraft recovered from Mr Anane’s house during a raid
We have to sacrifice all that so we can pump resources into ensuring that today you and I are still alive and we are not like India,” he told the media in Tamale.
We are making progress in our economic sectors also, but we need to do even more to meet the aspirations of our young and growing population, and feature among the leading lights of the world.
I like trains.
Only persons who took their first COVID-19 jab between 1st and 9th March 2021, are eligible for the second jab currently being administered.
Why wait to date?
Praise specific actions.
There are many department stores and supermarkets in Shinjuku.
AngloGold Ashanti reported last week “with deep regret”, that an employee of its mining contractor at the Obuasi Gold Mine in Ghana, is “missing after a fall of ground in one of the operation’s mining stopes”.
“From working with Commonwealth of Learning to support over 30,000 Ghanaians enroll in its Read2skill programme, supporting the Ministry of Education and the Ghana Education Service with a Learning Management System for Basic education and enhancing our Digital Library with video tutorials, supported by UNICEF to deploy mobile library vans to transport books to homes of young people in the era of COVID-19, it is a mark of innovation and relentlessness on the part of the staff of GhLA to support the Ghanaian life- long learner”.
Another option is to pay off smaller balances first, since receiving fewer bills each month will likely boost your morale.
For instance, when one is looking for food, he can say, can you get me that fufu from Patasi?
For example, when we watched TV, I liked sports, but she liked dramas.
That requires more than just believing in themselves.
Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the chanced uponation of freedom, justice and peace in the world,
The country has chalked significant success in its digital transformation agenda in the last decade.
It has to do with driving recklessly, and breaking all the traffic regulations and trying to bribe the police when you are pulled up. It has to do with not getting the proper permit to build a house, and it has to do with looking the other way when something wrong is going on.
Scientists are developing electronic “noses” to detect explosives, contraband, and disease, including cancer.
Reacting to that, Dominic Nitiwul took notice that these military officials are fully briefed and complying with the rules of engagement laid down by the incumbent government, thus, any item confiscated or destroyed is recorded and made known to the general public.
You really must stop smoking.
She was shocked to find paraphernalia associated with witchcraft and magical rituals.
The association embarked on its current nationwide strike on Tuesday, May 18, 2021, over the failure of the government to pay their Tier 2 pension.
Luxembourg, Austria, Switzerland, France, and the Netherlands have also been affected by the extreme rainfall but have not reported any fatalities.
He's always trying to say something to us.
Humility benefits lots of relationships
When it is your turn to listen, resist the urge to interrupt or disagree. You will get your turn to speak. For now, just listen.
Also, in November 2020, an illegal small-scale mining pit in the outskirts of Ayanfuri collapsed and trapped eight persons between the ages of 24 and 35 years.
The woman, whose narration in the 2 minutes 5 seconds audio did not seem coherent, erroneously referred to Kofi Eshun as the President’s was speakingsman.
According to the Chief of Defence Staff, Vice Admiral Seth Amoama, over seven hundred excavators believed to have been moved from mining sites are likely to be taken back to mining sites.
I assure all of you that the project is the beginning of greater things to come for the Ghana School of Law.
Also, I was shocked at how Toru would stretch the truth. I told him that one lie leads to another and that if he didn’t stop, our marriage could not continue.
The only weapons I have in my home are water pistols.
Speaking to Citi Business News on the recent development, the President of GUTA, Dr. Joseph Obeng, welcomed the lowering of the policy rate but charged the government to introduce a system that will compel banks to reduce their interest rates in a manner that’s commensurate with the drop in the policy rate.
According to the Chief of Defence Staff, Vice Admiral Seth Amoama, over seven hundred excavators believed to have been moved from mining sites are likely to be taken back to mining sites.
Similar stories have also been reported in the early part of 2021.
Agree on an amount that each of you can spend without having to consult the other.
Industry leaders from academia and ICT ecosystem praised Huawei’s ICTN Academy and other talent cultivation initiatives of Huawei as a step in the right direction and critical for equipping the youth to be professionals whiles remaining globally.
The Authority was awarded for its outstanding commitment to using technology to support remote learning to promoting information skills, literacy and reading.
The President continued, “with the 2021/2022 academic year fast approaching, the school is, again, faced with limited and overstretched facilities, hence the added importance of this project”.
Under the new system, teaching hours are increased from six hours per day to eight hours per day.
I think it is a journey, I don’t think we are there yet, but I think we are on the right track.”
he added such projects have given Tinjase town and surrounding communities a facelift.
The Minority further tasked President Akufo-Addo and his appointees to handle the situation decisively in order to eradicate galamsey from the country and save the environment.
The District Chief Executive (DCE) FOR Ada West, Adzoteye Lawyer Akrofi, has denied ownership of the ambulance that was seen in a video, which has been widely circulated on social media, being loaded with bags of cement.
We were attending to a customer when a fair tall man entered and held the customer.
Bullying includes more than physical assaults
So husbands are baffled when their solutions are not readily accepted.
A troubled resident who was speaking to City News said “almost every week there are armed robbers patrolling all over this place”.
Dr. Nikhil Sharma from the District hospital Himachal Pradesh, stated: “Some angels from Africa are assisting to save lives in far off India and we will ever remain grateful to them for this kind gesture.”
Many husbands and wives were raised in homes where hurtful speech was common.
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation.
I want to experience and I want to drive on the roads.
Indeed, his tolerance for political debate was on show in the nearly two years of NDC protests against the EC and then he quietly set a great record by supporting the entire election budget from Government resources.
By giving such correction in the spirit of love, you will teach him humility without hurting his self-respect.​
Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic production of which he is the author.
Often, though, such shallow relationships are short-lived.
Really, dating is any social activity in which your romantic interest is focused on one particular person and that person’s interest is focused on you.
For example, we can smell soup, but a dog can detect every ingredient in the recipe, according to some experts.
Mr. Frank Adu Jnr, a former Managing Director of CalBank Limited, told the GNA that Ghanaians were deeply touched by the plight of their siblings, hence their decision to support them with oxygen concentrators.
You do not need a lot of money to enjoy life.
Significantly, he has also set up the most empowered institution to deal with political impunity. With our goodwill, The Office of the Special Prosecutor (OSP) will perhaps be the most enduring legacy of President Akufo-Addo, rivalling the mass spread of literacy that the educational reforms will bring.
Teach your children that there is value in serving others.
The Minister said it is not in the place of the board to take such a decision.
Although she’s surrounded by people who care about her, she still feels invisible and unlovable. She masks her low self-worth with a stern exterior.
No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, in-human or degrading treatment or punishment.
The boy carved his name into the tree and am counting on you.
They would make it seem that there was no room at the lunch table so I couldn’t sit with them.
Allow your child to see your joy and satisfaction as you care for the needs of others.
Discuss what each of you could have done differently to address the underlying issues without arguing.​
The 2020 total transactions represented about 84% growth from the value recorded in 2019.
It comes after the gender minister in a solidarity message on the commemoration of the 2021 Menstrual Hygiene Day stated her intent to accelerate the process to eliminate tax on sanitary pads.
Mr Polley was speaking at the Ghana Statistical Service (GSS) 10-day intensive training workshop for potential field officers in the Ellembelle District of the Western Region.
So we will call on the Bank of Ghana or the government to find a way to introduce a base cap or make some compelling arrangements that will make the banks come along,” he added.
I work every day except Saturday.
“There are many of them who are in a hurry to assume office even while Parliament has not even considered their nomination. May I, Mr. Speaker, serve a warning that in accordance with the ruling J.H. Mensah vs Attorney General, they will be in a hurry at their own peril because they must respect the provisions of the Constitution.”
Just give me some time. I'm sure I can figure out how to solve the problem.
Earlier this year, UT Bank and Capital Bank were also faced the same liquidation problem.
The Chief of Tinjase, Ubor Mamunin II, lauded Mr. Bless for initiating the school projects.
Likely, you listen patiently and speak respectfully to friends and even strangers. Yet, are you just as considerate to your mate?
The new programme creates a calendar of two semesters in a year for the SHS 1 class, containing 81 days per each semester and 41 days of vacation for a sandwich class.
During a conflict, partners with such attitudes may view each other as adversaries rather than allies and use words that hurt rather than heal.
No one enjoys living with a partner who believes “it’s either my way or the highway.
Citizens are being bombarded with all kinds of government projects funded with and worth millions of dollars but these projects are wasted in spite of all the expertise at play.
As part of his visit, the High Commissioner and the MP shall pay a courtesy call on the Yaa-Naa, and also hold crunch meeting with the MP and other dignitaries, and visit the Yendi Water Project site.
Likewise, you should expect to make some embarrassing mistakes as you gain experience in marriage.
Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security and is entitled to realization, through national effort and international co-operation and in accordance with the organization and resources of each State, of the economic, social and cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his personality.
Judges sometimes refer to it as justification. The key argument is that extraordinary measures overriding current legal rights are permissible if the intent and action is in the line of duty and will preserve larger public interests.
I will write to you next week.
I'd like to have a word with you about what happened yesterday.
thus, encourage your child to identify those in need.
Exempting your child from family chores might give him the message, ‘You are too important to do this!’ Family duties should come first, and playing second.
Those parents believed that the secret to building self-esteem was to ignore the bad and praise everything else.
So the answer to all three questions is yes.
We request members, commuters and the general public to kindly cooperate for the successful implementation of the new fares,” they added
The chief enumerated a number of infrastructure projects the MP carried out in the area, including rural electrification, mechanized boreholes, CHPS compounds, school buildings, and a communication tower.
How can you reduce the impact of the “everyday troubles that married people will have”?
The police caught Kwabena red-handed, breaking into a house in our neighborhood.
Our daily lives are full of stressful situations, so taking the time to get away is the perfect way to clear your head.
The Deputy Northern Region Police Commander, DSP Moses Atibilla, said they had been “terrorizing innocent citizens in Tamale here.”
The court was told that Yeboah applied a cream into the girl’s vagina, which gave her a burning sensation, after which she inserted his finger into her and defiled her.
In essence, that is what your son or daughter is doing during the teen years​—shedding the traits of childhood and learning to become a responsible young adult who is self-reliant and mature enough to leave home.
“Maybe because they [other mining companies] don’t have a political voice, they were not making any agitation
Even if they are incompatible, having all aspects of the matter on paper will help you and your partner to see the issue more clearly.
Mr. Eshun further insisted the added audio was created to cause disaffection for him as a senior government official.
“The Allied Health Professional Council regulates Allied Health Professionals, and the list is clearly stated in the schedule of Act 857 and it lists those who are allied health professionals – you must be a lab technician, you must necesserily be a medical laboratory technologist or a medical laboratory scientist.
Dating is no trivial matter.
Medical oxygen becomes essential for treatment of severe COVID-19 patients.
Also, in November 2020, an illegal small-scale mining pit in the outskirts of Ayanfuri collapsed and trapped eight persons between the ages of 24 and 35 years.
Strive for balance, setting reasonable boundaries to protect your marriage, while remaining cooperative with the other parent to the extent possible.
Tens of thousands have been displaced by the latest unrest, making the need for humanitarian support ever more urgent.
Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country, directly or through freely chosen representatives.
To maintain close association with one particular member of the opposite sex while you’re still in this phase can fan the flames of desire and lead to wrong conduct.
No one shall be held guilty of any penal offence on account of any act or omission which did not constitute a penal offence, under national or international law, at the time when it was committed.
But Professor Nteful on Star fm said the strike is unchanced uponed, given that hematologists are equally qualified to work in laboratories.
Nobody ever came to see me in the hospital.
I discovered that my wife and I were less compatible than I thought.
he added when all stakeholders contribute their quota to improve teaching and learning environment in schools, pupils would perform better.
Visiting new places can be very exciting, but it can also be a bit intimidating, which takes you out of your comfort zone and forces you to try new things.
In the press release, they urged transport operators to stick to the proposed increase.
The effects of these acts of lawlessness have been, invariably, the loss, and threat of loss, of innocent depositors’ savings and jobs.
Humility benefits your child’s future.
“We will be law-abiding and do nothing to compromise the stability of the country.
In order to have a right to the hydrocarbons produced and in proceeds from the production, each party must first pay its share of the costs of producing hydrocarbons from the unitized field.”
Upon consultations, government has assured us that it will continue with efforts to prevent a steep rise in input cost.
That requires more than just believing in themselves.
Often, though, such shallow relationships are short-lived.
No laws in Ghana today permit the burning of excavators,” he added.
More importantly, as a bank…you must know that GCB is not just a bank, we are a national bank, we are a catalyst for development in this country.
The enumeration of persons in households and long-stay institutions would be enumerated from 28th June to 11th July, 2021.
We are challenging the minister to pay us well and then we’ll provide the quality he wants.
Mr. Mahama urged his supporters not to give up on their dreams for the party to come to power.
To her, it is out of place for women to think they have to sacrifice their family for their career or vice versa.
Furthermore, at a gallop the horse’s legs vibrate at high frequencies that could injure its tendons.
Here are four reasons why traveling makes you excited:
Citi News‘ checks at some centers revealed that although many people turned up very early in the morning, as early as 4:00 am, they had not been served as at 10:00am.
The party was established to empower the people of Ghana to be architects of our own destiny.
The tone in which a discussion begins with is often the tone in which it ends.
Similar incidents of robberies are happening across the country.
One apparent restraint to our progress, what we may term the missing link in our governance system, which hampers the fast economic development we seek, is the deficit in the application of the rule of law.
The deceased’s father reported to police that a day before his daughter’s demise, she complained to him that she was severely assaulted by her husband, and that had led to the death of her daughter.
What do you learn Spanish for?
Mr Siaw also acknowledged the staff of the GhLA for their commitment and dedication in connecting Ghanaians to knowledge resources.
The ruling that went against the school authorities delivered by Justice Gifty Agyei was received with displeasure, triggering measures to appeal the verdict, per a June 1 communiqué.
Akwesi Yeboah pleaded not guilty to the charge of defilement, but was chanced upon guilty by the Accra Circuit Court, presided over by Ms. Christiana Cann, after a full trial.
I thanked him from the bottom of my heart.
There should even be a police checkpoint over here.
When we travel, we can easily forget about our stressors and recharge.
Commenting, the MD of Stanbic Bank and President of the Ghana Bankers Association, Alhassan Andani said because the financial sector acts as a nerve of the economy, it is important that it is well managed.
Once you “think in agreement” about the situation, you can work together to improve it.
Beverly, a stepmother in the United States, says: “My young stepchildren wanted to call me Mom.
A development which led to the Acting Director and Management of the School taking a cue from the double-track system initiated in our Senior High Schools, to introduce a triple-track system,” he added.
Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in association with others.
They're not excited.
Four of my favorite Christmas carols are "Silent Night," "Joy to the World," "The First Noel" and "Away in the Manger."
In 1969, Roger Miller recorded a song called "You Don't Want My Love." Today, this song is better known as "In the Summer Time." It's the first song he wrote and sang that became popular.
Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country, directly or through freely chosen representatives.
Dr Mensah also wondered how the Akufo-Addo led government has borrowed so much with little to show for in terms of infrastructural development.
He stressed that the Development Bank Ghana will be a central player for Ghana’s economic recovery and structural transformation, “especially given the importance of counter-cyclical support in stimulating private enterprise.”
Put any agreements in writing. Even if your first request is not successful, be willing to persist in asking for an adjustment if necessary.
According to her, the program is fast becoming the most popular Certification program on campus due to word-of-mouth recommendations from students who currently have opportunities working at various leading companies in the ICT industry in Ghana and beyond.
Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust, non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty.
he added issues affecting the private sector, including shortcomings in the tax collection system and general misunderstanding of the tax laws in the business community, must be addressed by Parliament.
The association embarked on its current nationwide strike on Tuesday, May 18, 2021, over the failure of the government to pay their Tier 2 pension.
The new programme creates a calendar of two semesters in a year for the SHS 1 class, containing 81 days per each semester and 41 days of vacation for a sandwich class.
The Zoomlion General Manager for Ashanti East, Franklin Ofori Akuffo, indicated that LSM was one of the best interventions in the control of malaria.
Road contractors in the country have urged Roads and Highways Minister Kwesi Amoako-Atta to resort to the same passion with which he condemns bad roads in paying contractors for jobs done.
Even if he doesn’t agree with me, he considers my viewpoint.
Commenting, the MD of Stanbic Bank and President of the Ghana Bankers Association, Alhassan Andani said because the financial sector acts as a nerve of the economy, it is important that it is well managed.
Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay.
This angered many of us, and it generated a lot of confusion.
Twelve people have died and more than 100,000 evacuated following record-breaking rainfall.
I hear from him once a month.
According to him, the lack of responsiveness of banks, when it comes to reacting to changes in the policy rate, leaves much to be wished for
Each of you make a two-column list. In the first column, write down which aspects of the issue you feel most strongly about. In the second column, list the aspects on which you feel that you could compromise.
Some youths are targeted by bullies because of their appearance, race, or religion or even because they have a disability​—anything the bully can pick on.
If you find yourself sitting with your arms folded and shaking your head no (or just thinking it) when your partner is trying to talk out a problem with you, your discussion will never get anywhere
The number of students going abroad to study is increasing each year.
Obviously, that wouldn’t be fair!
“The law says a foreigner cannot do retail except Ghanaians but the foreigners are doing retail in our markets and so we will close their shops.
An unknown woman in an audio circulating on social media claims to have picked some information that the President had plans to sell the Art Centre.
He indicated.Industry players have predicted that Ghana could move at a faster rate if it boosts the use of digital payment systems.
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.
I did all this together and so balancing is the key here.”
The country conducted a National Census in 1960, 1970, 1984, 2000, and 2010.
If you wrestle with such concerns, remember this: Independence is not a door that your child simply walks through; it is a road that he or she travels, and it takes years to complete the journey.
The armed robbers held staff and clients of the non-bank financial institution hostage, as they ransacked their treasury.
Men and women of full age, without any limitation due to race, nationality or religion, have the right to marry and to chanced upon a family. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during marriage and at its dissolution.
I'm a bit confused because the police is still investigating the mysterious death of the professor.
Chances are, your answer is different from that of your parent.
This calls for the business strategy to be relevant and well-positioned to proactively meet the needs and expectations of its clients, a decision that will generate sustainable profits and returns.
Talking to my sons used to be pleasant. They listened carefully to what I had to say, and they responded immediately.
The Ghana Library Authority, the institution mandated by law to establish, equip, maintain and manage public libraries in Ghana, has emerged as the ‘Library of the Year’ at the London Book Fair (LBF) International Excellence Awards 2021.
List three things that you admire about your partner. The next time you get angry at something he or she does, think about the qualities that you identified. This may help you control your anger.
Moderation is always a good rule to follow
He thus described it as an “embarrassing stain” on the country’s judicial and electoral systems as well as a major source of worry to well-meaning Ghanaians.
You could ask for an extension or a lower interest rate.
My dog has a wonderful life.
he added that Parliament will directly engage them on drafting of amendments to laws that affect their operations in order to ensure that their concerns are fully addressed.
Rasoarimanana has also become an appreciated chef in the family, especially for her delicious vegetable recipes.
In Africa, Ghana is largely considered the leader in the digital transformation agenda.
With the ever-changing face of retail business across the world, there have been calls for business in Ghana to accordingly adapt, especially with respect to e-commerce.
There are parts of Tigray where it has been possible to reach those in need - particularly areas now stable and under the control of the TPLF.
As a trade union organization that has for 75 years sought the protection and welfare of workers in the industry, it said it takes an uncompromising opposition to these worrying and preventable fatalities that are shedding the blood of innocent workers in atonement for the profiteering motives of these multinational corporations.
When you travel, you have plenty of time to think about whether or not you’re truly excited with your life.
Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits.
The BA team is yet to provide any information as promised,” excerpts of the statement revealed.
“Whether teachers, doctors, students, drivers, businessmen and women or government employees – each of them contributed to the best of their abilities,” one of them told the Ghana News Agency.
Oxygen from the air dissolves in water.
The man I had always relied on had become helpless
When you travel, you have plenty of time to think about whether or not you’re truly excited with your life.
Many scientists have the reputation of being eccentric.
I began this address by indicating that I wanted us to be open in our discussions about ourselves and about our conduct in the practice of our profession.
Put a ‘price tag’ next to each category, projecting how much it will cost you within a given time, perhaps a month.
Researchers have took notice a disturbing trend: Many young adults are entering the workforce with a marked sense of entitlement—an attitude in which they expect success, even if they have done little or nothing to earn it.
Let's talk about basketball.
A similar incident occurred in October 2020 where five persons were reported dead after they were trapped in a mining pit in the same district.
These are the three focal areas our strategy is built on
He was relieved when she informed him that she had a rich new boyfriend.
Within days, the body begins to replace the injured tissue, make the wound contract, and repair damaged blood vessels.
According to her, Africans have good stories that needs to be highlighted for the global market.
He took notice that the establishment of the Bank is in line with the objectives of the European Union, and will help develop Ghana’s private sector, agri-business, manufacturing and ICT initiatives.
Perhaps they simply enjoy being with a special friend of the opposite sex, without any intention of marriage.
How did one make it to age twenty-three without knowing that?”
So explain to your child that boasting makes him look bad and that it could set him up for embarrassment.
You have been married for only a short time, and your spending is out of control. Is your partner to blame? Not so fast! Think as a team, and consider some factors that may have caused both of you to get into this predicament
Vice President of Self Love chanced uponation who is a midwife of the AGA Health chanced uponation, Sally Osei Tieku, bemoaned the increasing rate of stigmatization against girls during menstruation periods
The reduction in the rate saw average lending rates also drop from 22.38 percent in April 2020 to 20.93 percent in April 2021
Ghana’s population has since moved from 6.7 million in 1960 to 24.6 million in 2010, and currently estimated at 30 million.
My husband is a man of few words. But I’m used to my family.
She added “this is where Self Love chanced uponation comes in.
The chief of Yendi has visited the town of Buipe to development projects
A man believed to be in his 30s has killed himself dead after he killed his girlfriend, Melody Owusu, who he allegedly caught with another man.
Later I looked back and realized how wrong it was to do that!
The Ghana Revenue Authority (GRA) has given some Oil Marketing Companies including Santol Energy the green light to continue their operations nationwide.
The deceased Akwesi Dagatsi was aged 45.
This plane flew from San Francisco to New York.
Make a list of your necessary expenses, including food, clothing, rent or mortgage, car payments, and the like
I remember the event as clearly as if it had happened just yesterday.
Nor shall a heavier penalty be imposed than the one that was applicable at the time the penal offence was committed.
The Ashanti Regional branch of the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GAMLS), and others in some regions, have also declared an indefinite strike in empathy with their colleagues at KATH
“I will get the relevant committees to look at the specific laws in question and work with you to address the concerns,” he added.
Speaking to Citi News, the National Public Relations Officer of the Association, Dennis Adu-Gyasi, said the decision was taken at an emergency meeting with its members.
Kwabena thinks it will rain tomorrow.
But it turned out to be a robbery.
This is the man whose daughter you met yesterday.
Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests.
The astronauts were greeted with cheers and applause of an enthusiastic crowd.
Think: Would you like someone to play with your feelings as if they were some child’s toy—to be picked up for a moment and then quickly abandoned?
Making the request in Parliament, Haruna Iddrisu said the fact that the President supports the approach does not make it right.
We request members, commuters and the general public to kindly cooperate for the successful implementation of the new fares,” they added
The donation will be shared among 30 health facilities in rural areas across 14 different states/regions.
If you were to do all the things you want and not listen to your partner or give your partner a chance to express another view, you would be living as if you were still single
Later in April, one Prince Charles Dedjoe, a businessman, suspected of killing his wife was also picked up by the police.
The Minister of State-designate for Finance, Mr. Charles Adu Boahen, who was also present at the signing ceremony, explained that the focus of Government, since the onset of COVID-19, has been to put in place the building blocks for an inclusive and sustainable economic recovery.
Aduana Stars beat Eleven Wonders courtesy lone goal from Isaac Kwain.
Granted, some of your peers might take a casual view of dating.
He had no choice but to run away.
Around 6:30 in the evening, Kwesi would’ve finished his daily rounds/roaming and gotten back to where he sleeps
There are better ways to resolve conflicts.
No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
Officials of the Self-Love chanced uponation thus donated about 1000 menstrual caps to students in the municipality.
Researchers believe that a similarly soft and flexible robotic arm would be invaluable in performing minimally invasive surgery.
By the time Asamoah realized what was going on, the police had already picked up Abena.
When you are annoyed with your mate, imagine that instead of talking to your partner, you are conversing with a good friend or with your employer.
The Speaker gave the assurance at a meeting with the Private Enterprises Federation (PEF) in Parliament on Tuesday.
You see evidence of that nearly everywhere—from the shameless way people defraud others to the aggressive way they drive, from their crude language to their explosive tempers.
Government’s commitment to leaving a lasting legacy in professional legal education in Ghana is absolute,” he added.
The boy lost his ear in a street combat.
Do not wait until a problem arises before you talk about money.
I want to assure them that this particular activity, I will not relent on it, and I am going to the extent of petitioning the IMF and the World Bank, I will also petition the International Investor community and I will petition CHRAJ to look into this.
The police’s Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) said a female manager at Tala, a digital lender that issues small loans to Kenyans, met the Ghanaian called Victor Anane through an online dating site.
Following the drastic surge of Covid-19 cases in India this month, some Ghanaians, have in a kind gesture of brotherliness, provided a donation of 150 medical grade oxygen concentrators to needy hospitals in that country.
The nominee, who served as a deputy Finance Minister in President Akufo-Addo’s first term, made this known when he appeared before the Appointments Committee of Parliament today, Wednesday, June 2, 2021
Dating should have an honorable purpose—to help a young man and woman determine if they want to get married to each other.
It has to do with the degradation of our environment and the pollution of the atmosphere and of our water bodies. It has to do with petty bribery and corruption, and it has to do with bribery and corruption on a grand scale.
Instead, help her to see how she may do better next time. Reserve praise for actual accomplishments.
Witnesses say, Sampson Ataafi, upon realizing that his girlfriend was in the new boyfriend’s room, opened fire on the lady through a trap door.
Seize opportunities to make your mate rejoice during your first year of marriage.
Several times a day, you send text messages or talk to this person on the phone. Are you dating?
I haven't eaten since breakfast. I'm hungry.
Instead of learning that they can survive pain and disappointment, and even learn from it, [such] children grow up extremely self-centered, convinced that the world and their parents owe them something.
Would you mind if I open the window?
On Twitter, President Buhari said the crash was a “mortal blow… at a time our armed forces are poised to end the security challenges facing the country”.
It is illegal in the United States for law enforcement to use torture to get information.
If your attempts at compromise only escalate into heated arguments, it may be that you and your partner are focusing too much on where your views differ.
I shouldn't have to put up with this noise.He demanded that the savage dog be kept tied up.
Presided over by Chief Justice, Justice Kwesi Anin Yeboah, a five-member panel of the Supreme Court asked the state to pay interest at the prevailing rate from November 28, 2014, to the date of payment to NDK.
Strong arguments against outright destruction through burning include illegality of burning, indiscriminate approach impacting legal miners and impunity of Government.
Toru and Akiko were in love when they were first married. But only eight months later, this Japanese couple decided to divorce. They relate what happened.
The man you met at the station is my father.
There is milk all over the kitchen floor because my wife broke the bottle.
"Further to our statement issued on 1st june 2021 on the subject of two Rastafarian applicants, we have been in consultation with other relevant stakeholders to seek the best ways forward, taking into account the interest of all parties,"it said.
I could cook one root in three meals, and I even gave some to my mother,” she says.
“In a situation where we’ve borrowed so much and you can’t see infrastructure to go with it, then it becomes a cause to worry.
Would you still use the same tone of voice or choice of words? Then think of reasons why your partner deserves to be was speakingn to with even more respect and tact than does your friend or employer.
Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Mr Evans Kessie told the Court that Rita was a trader, living at Shukura near Dansoman.
Road contractors in the country have urged Roads and Highways Minister Kwesi Amoako-Atta to resort to the same passion with which he criticize bad roads in paying contractors for jobs done.
Help your child to see where he is wrong and to acknowledge it.
Give praise when it is truly deserved
I can make it.
“We have a regime that we are implementing for the oil sector, and we want to implement the same
regime for the mining sector. So when you take your gold out of the soil, if you take a 1000 tonnes, you
will have to pay us our share out of that. We will not wait for you to go and say you have not made any
profit out of the 1000 so you will not pay us anything. You will have to pay us something commensurate
to what you have taken out.”
There are many department stores and supermarkets in Shinjuku.
Sometimes a sense of entitlement can be traced back to how a person was raised.
Accra Circuit Court on Wednesday convicted a 47-year-old woman for possessing Indian hemp.
In some cases, children are being raised in materialistic families.
the reports indicated that Jay Dordorye, [26 years] the boyfriend of the deceased, reportedly inflicted knife wounds on Harriet Kafui Ahiati (deceased) and attempted to commit suicide.
26-year-old Jay Dordoye is said to have slit his girlfriend’s throat and tried hanging himself after the incident. After failing in hanging himself, he resorted to stabbing himself multiple times.
he retritied that issues affecting the private sector, including shortcomings in the tax collection system and general misunderstanding of the tax laws in the business community, must be addressed by Parliament.
Significantly, he has also set up the most empowered institution to deal with political impunity.
Meanwhile, the suspect, James has been arraigned before court for prosecution.
“I strongly disagree, and I will advise those who take a contrary view to go to court to vindicate their position if they so wish
Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association.
Film and television comedies turn rude speech into a laughing matter, leaving the viewer with the impression that it is harmless—or even funny.
They are: Chen Guibin, Yao Zengcan, Lu Xiaobin, Wu Xiaobin, Cheng Churoung, and Xue Lianhua.
And that is why it is necessary to burn stray equipment once and for all to deter repetitive destructive behaviour.
Everyone has the right to an effective remedy by the competent national tribunals for acts violating the fundamental rights granted him by the constitution or by law.
Marriage shall be entered into only with the free and full consent of the intending partners.
It is a good habit to look up new words in a dictionary.
What exactly is dating?
Felicja likes to watch TV.
They have developinnovations and they have done quite a lot in terms of that.
On Twitter, President Buhari said the crash was a “mortal blow… at a time our armed forces are poised to end the security challenges facing the country”.
The baby was rushed to hospital and chanced upon to be unharmed.
A youth named Sandra says: “Part of me wants to say that dating should be just for fun, but it’s no fun when one person is taking it seriously and the other isn’t.”
Tickets are valid for two days, including the day they are purchased on.
Asamoah lost the shopping list his mother had given him and just bought things he wanted to eat.
No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms
An apology can transform your marriage from one where problems linger and create tension to one where problems are small bumps in the road.
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation.
Now your partner starts talking to you—something about expecting visitors tonight.
Speaking at this year's Asafotufiami of the people of Ada, president Akufo-Addo said, the new system will rather reduce class size, increase teaching hours and number of holidays among others.
In fact, we work with retailors on several things to make pricing very creative because most retailors, the reason some items are expensive is because, the thing doesn’t move as often as it should.
I take it for granted that people are honest.
Sharing a typical example, Abena Buachiwaa took notice that she was recently overwhelmed with work and at the time her daughter was also not feeling well and had to make a choice between the two.
Some of those who was speaking to Citi News said the vaccines did not arrive until almost midday.
Kwabena wondered why Abena was so mad.
“I have been reliably informed that 1,000 students were admitted during the 2020/2021 academic year.
Visiting new places can be very exciting, but it can also be a bit intimidating, which takes you out of your comfort zone and forces you to try new things.
The vision of GCB Bank is “to be the leading bank in all our markets”, whilst its mission is to provide first class banking solutions for our customers and value for all stakeholders.
He, thus, commended the organizers for putting together the training programme, pointing out that “we need to equip field workers so that they can do their work well.”
The incident occurred on March 26, 2021, but the Ambulance Service’s attention was drawn to the development only when the video went viral on social media.
I will write to you next week.
Making children feel good about themselves became more important than teaching them to accomplish things that they could actually feel good about.
Rev. Akwaa also attributed the disturbing situation which has negative consequences on children to lack of endurance and the combating spirit on the part of couples to protect their marriage or relationship despite the odds.
No matter how hard he may work, he will not be able to pass the exams.
The boy carved his name into the tree and am counting on you.
Although she still believes equalisation is great, she argues it is equally good to have equity on the table as well.
The author is seventy, but he's no less productive than he was twenty years ago.
A me-first mentality also exists in many homes.
A staff of the company, Collins Dapaah, who sustained severe injuries from gunkilleds during the incident, has died.
According to reports from circuit overseers, the island of Okinawa, in southern Japan, was the most affected.
Some are devastated by the slightest criticism.
I think we should stop talking about this and move on to another topic.
Other areas of Ghana's economy such as manufacturing according to him must also be given the needed attention adding that auditors have a big role to play in the financial sector.
The external debt component as of the end of March 2021 made up 32.5 % of the total value of the economy which is projected to be about GHS434 billion for 2021.
You expect some tumbles as you gain confidence as a cyclist.
The Appointments Committee of Parliament is set to commence vetting of the nominees on June 2, 2021, but even before the process starts, the Minority Leader insists some nominees are already engaging in activities pre-empting the work of the committee.
I’ll never forget the names they called me or the things they said.
For example, you might tactfully ask if it is possible to schedule a regular time for phone calls during the day.
Brazil is surrounded by ten countries and the Atlantic Ocean.
Prof. Teye has thus warned such supervisors that his administration will not tolerate the “attitude”.
A former Director-General of the Ghana Health Service, Professor Nteful, has hit hard at members of the Tafo Chapter of the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GAMLS) who are protesting the posting of the two hematologists to the Laboratory Service Department of the hospital.
The panel of judges in their remark stated that they were amazed about the story of the transformation of library services.
The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection by society and the State.
Ghana’s debt crosses GHS300 billion mark as debt-to-GDP ratio drops to 70.2%
he added Parliament will directly engage them on the drafting of amendments to laws that affect their operations in order to ensure that their concerns are fully addressed.
Many young adults entering the workforce seem ill-prepared to cope with adversity.
Accra Circuit Court last Wednesday convicted a 47-year-old woman for possessing Indian hemp.
The Indian High Commissioner to Ghana, H.E Sugandh Rajaram, is scheduled to pay an official visit to Yendi on 25th May 2021 as part of his diplomatic overtures to strengthen ties between India and the people of Yendi.
At the added meeting, the BA team promised to provide further information and data analysis to support it reason for the changes of its services from London-Heathrow-Airport to London-Gatwick-Airport and to enable the Government of Ghana to take a final position on the matter at hand.
The Vice President assured the investor community that while Government welcomes foreign direct
investment, such investment would have to be a partnership that was beneficial to all parties involved.
If you have extra money at the end of the month, decide together what you are going to do with it
The panel of judges in their remark stated that they were amazed about the story of the transformation of library services.
But now that they are teenagers, we have conflicts over everything.
In his estimation, it will take Ghana just like any other African country almost two decades to fully operate a cashless economy.
Prosecution said during the arrest, six pump action guns and cash of GHC1,292,180, sandy substances suspected to be gold dust, a yellow bar suspected to be a gold bar, and liquid substances suspected to be mercury, were chanced upon.
Later, approach your mate and ask, “Did you feel that I was really listening to you?”
The United States Ambassador in Syria left the country for security reasons.
That's according to the NHIS's Upper West Regional Director, Abass Suleymana.
Although money is important, do not allow it to disrupt your marriage or cause unnecessary anxiety.
This marks a decline from the first week of May when the country was reporting more than 300,000 cases daily.
He was, however, quick to add that there are a lot of serious minded supervisors in the university community and urged them to keep up.
Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits.
Some just assume that they will be promoted quickly, even without mastering their trade.
Asamoah's family lives in Boston.
Sharing a typical example, Abena Buachiwaa took notice that she was recently overwhelmed with work and at the time her daughter was also not feeling well and had to make a choice between the two.
Vice President Bawumia commended the Omanhene of Essikado Traditional Area, Nana Kwabena
Nketsiah V for his “continuous drive and contribution towards a better Ghanaian society for all”.
“We know that they do that from 9:00pm to 4:00am. That’s how brave they are. We know, and we know the towns they are doing it in, so we will come after you. Don’t try it,” Mr. Nitiwul warned.
It said visits by military personnel tasked to stop illegal mining activities, had shown that “there were still some illegal mining activities going on in some of the areas that had hitherto been cleared by Operation Halt II”.
Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in association with others.
The government recently renewed its commitment to ending the ‘galamsey’ menace with some enhanced measures, including the burning of excavators and other mining equipment by the members of the ‘Operation Halt’ taskforce
The external debt component as of the end of March 2021 made up 32.5 % of the total value of the economy which is projected to be about GHS434 billion for 2021.
So, for today, I can say their status has changed…. There has been a satisfactory arrangement with commissioner-general.”
He added, “as at this morning, Santol Energy’s assets have been released and they are working “.
Many young adults have devoured the message and are now in debt, unable to pay for the things they “deserve.”
A 48-year-old mason has been sentenced to 15 years in prison for defiling a four-year-old girl at Odorkor in Accra.
The Commission is also hiring additional mining engineers to strengthen compliance with the health and safety rules of mining activities.
Family Life Counsellor, Rev. Vincent Akwaa, bewailed the recent increase in reported cases of broken homes; a phenomenon he blamed on the reason that most people marry out of pressure.
According to the police, the suspect, James Atobi Asante, started dating the victim’s mother some
three years ago when her father died under mysterious circumstances.
This elevator's capacity is ten people.
he added upon a tip-off, the Police picked up Sandra on September 9, 2020, at about 1600 hours with three buckets of the Indian hemp soaked in liquid, popularly known as “lacka” as well as quantity of the dried leaves.
The crocodile’s jaw is covered with thousands of sense organs.
Ghana’s out of pocket expenditure per capita decreased from 38 Dollars in 2010 to 25 Dollars in 2015. That's according to the NHIS's Upper West Regional Director, Abass Suleymana.
When a building being constructed collapses and lives are lost, the cause can, in many cases, be traced to someone or some people breaking the law, or cutting corners. When a road that was built barely a year ago develops potholes, someone or some people have been breaking the law or cutting corners. The story of environmental degradation occasioned by illegal mining, what we call galamsey, is a clear case of people breaking the law.
Asamoah had his ear pressed to the door, trying to hear what was going on in the next room.
Accounting firm, PwC, was earlier appointed to establish the veracity of the over ¢1.2 billion claims made by NDK Financial Services Limited against the government through the Ministry of Energy
Following an agitation by citizens, the National Petroleum Authority rescinded its decision to increase the fuel margin to 17 pesewas per litre
These are allied health professionals.
When you praise effort, you teach your child that ability can improve with practice. Your child might then take on new challenges more confidently.​
Kotoko held on to start their title defence on a strong note as they march on to the round of 32 stage after a comfortable victory at the Nana Gyamfi Park in Bekwai.
“When completed, these facilities will help to decongest the high number of pupils in the classrooms, promote reading culture among pupils and also provide comfort for teachers who sit under trees to mark scripts,” he added.
Significantly, he has also set up the most empowered institution to deal with political impunity.
But you may have paused before responding to the second and the third.
For example, some parents have been unduly influenced by the self-esteem movement that has become popular in recent decades.
The Ashanti Regional Police Command says the 43-year-old man who was killed during a robbery incident at Buokrom Estate in Kumasi has died.
Instead, pinpoint where they agree. To help you find common ground, try this
This will significantly reduce delays in the licensing process and will eliminate the paper application, with all clients expected to complete applications online.
The ruling that went against the school authorities delivered by Justice Gifty Agyei was received with displeasure, triggering measures to appeal the verdict, per a June 1 communiqué.
Mr. Amar Deep S. Hari, the Chief Executive Officer of IPMC, who commissioned the items, on a virtual platform for distribution from India’s famous mosque, Dargah Nizamuddin in New Delhi, India, expressed his gratitude to Ghanaians for this assistance.
Next, determine the order in which you will tackle your debts.
The President of the Ghana Union of Traders Association (GUTA), Dr. Joseph Obeng is accusing banks in the country of running a cartel arrangement that keeps interest rates high despite reductions in the monetary policy rate.
You’re not listening to me!” your partner says. ‘But I was,’ you tell yourself. Evidently, though, what you heard is different from what your partner said. As a result, another argument erupts.
“Then all of a sudden, we heard his wife screaming ‘Please someone should come and help me!’
Children who work through their problems build resilience and self-confidence—assets they might lack if someone was constantly rescuing them.
Achimota School insisted that they comply with the School’s regulations by shaving their dreadlocks.
He is of the view that no officer of the Armed Forces, “will risk his carrier and the livelihood of his family because he wants to pick an ounce of gold and hide it.
Point out how chores benefit others and how others will appreciate and respect him for doing them.
In January 2021, Ghana government rejected the decision by British Airways to switch the London-Accra-London route from Heathrow to Gatwick Airport.
If you find yourself sitting with your arms folded and shaking your head no (or just thinking it) when your partner is trying to talk out a problem with you, your discussion will never get anywhere
Spanning from the establishment of Google’s first Africa Artificial Intelligence Lab in 2019 to Twitter’s quest to set up in Ghana this year, the country has gone several notches ahead amongst other African nations in attracting foreign tech giants.
The video was recorded by a concerned citizen, who wished to remain anonymous, according to Citi News’ Central Regional Correspondent, Calvis Tetteh.
It could also be that you and your partner have different approaches to money. For example, one might be more inclined to spend while the other is more inclined to save.
The desk is covered with dust.
Kofi broke his right leg and was taken to hospital a few weeks before Christmas.
He, thus, charged the nominees to respect the provisions of the Constitution regarding their nomination and subsequent approval or rejection by the House.
It was part of the government’s plan to boost the military’s efficiency in combating a more than decade-long jihadist insurgency.
There were the reports of vehicles becoming stranded as water quickly rose to block dozens of roads and affected underground lines.
However, the muscles in the legs act as dampers.
In our country, currently, the problems confronting our banking sector are dominating the headlines, as they should.
According to him, no law permitting the burning of seized excavators currently exists in Ghana’s constitution.
The reduction in the rate saw average lending rates also drop from 22.38 percent in April 2020 to 20.93 percent in April 2021
If you and your mate need to talk about something potentially divisive, raise the matter when both of you are calm and relaxed.
Members of the Chapter declared an indefinite strike that started on Thursday, 27th May 2021, following a one-week sit-down strike to protest the posting of two haematologists to the Laboratory Service Department of the hospital by management.
“Once completed, the Law Village will boast of an additional seating capacity of one thousand five hundred (1,500) seats, a number of lecture halls, a well-resourced library, residential facilities, offices, amongst others,” he added.
“We don’t want the raw bauxite being taken out of Ghana anymore.
He told us such a funny story that we all laughed.
We need air to breathe, water to drink, and food to eat. Use these examples to instill appreciation, awe, and gratitude for the wonders of the natural world.
A similar incident occurred in October 2020 where five persons were reported dead after they were trapped in a mining pit in the same district. 5 others who were also trapped in the cave sustained varied injuries after the incident.
According to him, those allegations are “outright and blatant lies.”
According to him, this forms part of government’s broader plan of improving the country’s road network and bring development close to Ghanaians.
The Nigerian Air Force said the incident happened as the plane was landing at Kaduna International Airport.
The next time you talk to your teen about an issue, help him to reason on how his choices reflect on him.
Or maybe not! You might be among the many youths who are wisely putting off dating until they’re old enough to know themselves better.
I remember very clearly that he threw two pistols into the river.
It was not till this morning that it stopped raining.
He expects everyone to treat him as special.
So rather than give up, she may try another approach or simply work harder.
"This is a new era, with a new manager and I've had a very good conversation with him, so I hope we can enjoy a lot of victories."
How can you control your anger in explosive situations?
he added that is why anywhere we go, I don’t want to go with a helicopter.
The armed robbers held staff and clients of the non-bank financial institution hostage, as they ransacked their treasury.
Travel lets you think about your life
Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the chanced uponation of freedom, justice and peace in the world,
The Operation Halt II patrol that accompanies the team was ordered to destroy logistics chanced upon in these areas,” the statement added.
In the Eastern region, robbers mounted roadblock on Monday dawn and robbed passengers plying that route. A passenger was killed in the attack.
However, the Defence Minister, Dominic Nitiwul, has explained that licensed mining companies will be treated as illegal miners if their activities pollute water bodies.
AMONG the numerous mechanisms that make human life possible is the body’s ability to heal wounds and regenerate damaged tissue.
Prior to the second wave of COVID-19, Ghana had become one of the first recipients of the Indian manufactured COVID-19 vaccines under WHO’s Covax program.
No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms
Try to get the real message, even if it is not was speakingn.
Kwabena wondered why Abena was so mad.
Miss Tieku describing the situation as worrying, said the misconceptions surrounding menstruation have resulted in most women developing low self esteem.
You could passively surrender to your partner’s wishes.
Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal, in the determination of his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him.
he added it was a national exercise and field officers were selected based on merit and not on political affiliation.
If you travel with your partner, you will quickly learn how you each communicate and how you can improve your relationship.
For example, some partners divorce simply because one partner feels that he or she “deserves better.
A me-first mentality also exists in many homes.
If so, compromise should not be too difficult.
In a similar way, people who are starved for friends could look for friendship in all the wrong places
Some creditors may even be willing to reduce what you owe if you can pay the lower amount in full right now.
Others are convinced that they are special and deserve to be treated that way—and then they become dejected when they realize that the world does not share their view.
After you express yourself, allow your partner to respond without interruption.
Carbohydrates can give you energy.
In this piece, correspondent Emmanuel Mensah-Abludo says the students at the Wa campus are pursuing their courses at the Faculty of Integrated Development Studies, School of Business and Law as well as the Faculty of Planning and Land Management.
My sister works at the United States Embassy in London.
If you travel with your partner, you will quickly learn how you each communicate and how you can improve your relationship.
Don't count your chickens before they hatch.
If you bottle up your anger, the problem will keep recurring and you’ll eventually explode.
If you were to do all the things you want and not listen to your partner or give your partner a chance to express another view, you would be living as if you were still single
Scientists are designing robots equipped with sensors that mimic cat whiskers to help the robots navigate around obstacles.
The river is polluted by waste from houses and factories.
“These illegal activities were mostly being done in the night or under the cover of darkness protected by armed guards, as used cartridges were chanced upon at the sites. The Operation Halt II patrol that accompanies the team was ordered to destroy logistics chanced upon in these areas,” the statement added.
The MP cut the sod last Saturday, May 23, for work to start on the GH¢800,000 projects.
Sky FC also brushed aside Premier League side Ebusua Dwarfs, winning 2-0.
You most likely had no problem answering the first question.
Some of the contractors have moved from sites because the contractual agreement hasn’t been met.
Things got better when we included them more, had the kids call them, and thanked them for their support.
She makes all her own clothes.
Encourage your child to apologize quickly.
Even if you need to lose weight, remember that your goal is to be healthy.
he added upon a tip-off, the Police picked up Rita on September 9, 2020, at about 1600 hours with three buckets of the Indian hemp soaked in liquid, popularly known as “lacka” as well as quantity of the dried leaves.
According to him, it wasn’t just the NPP executive’s company that had been affected by the work of the task force.
Still, the issue has not been resolved, and they both feel uncomfortable.
He later called for the setting up of an interim leadership committee to steer the affairs of the continental body while preparations are made for the general elections.
I was always honest with you, but you never tried to be honest with me.
Just the act of planning a trip together with your partner can bring you closer than you were before – and make you excited.
Kwabena put the new tablecloth he had just bought on the table.
“Nana is indeed a true chip off the old block” Dr Bawumia declared, and called for the sustenance of the
peace and unity enjoyed by the people of Essikado and the nation as a whole.
“What is happening at KATH is an affront on the practice of medical laboratory science in Ghana.
We do not oppose unitization; we working with government, partners – Eni, Vitol
A youth named Sandra says: “Part of me wants to say that dating should be just for fun, but it’s no fun when one person is taking it seriously and the other isn’t.”
“The NDC will always remain the party of the people.
We are afraid for our lives.”
A similar incident occurred in October 2020 where five persons were reported dead after they were trapped in a mining pit in the same district.
Traveling builds resilience, and resilient people are typically happier.
I try to have balanced meals from all food groups.
Happiness does not depend on having the latest things.
Although details are sketchy, the Tamale South legislator named one Damoah as the gentleman picked who has been picked by the security agency for investigation.
The training, which took place in Kumasi, was organised by Zoomlion Ghana Limited (ZGL) in partnership with the Ghana Health Service (GHS) under its National Malaria Control Programme (NAMCOP) and Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research (NMIMR).
Prof. Teye has thus warned such supervisors that his administration will not tolerate the “attitude”.
The Deputy Northern Region Police Commander, DSP Moses Atibilla, said they had been “terrorizing innocent citizens in Tamale here.”
The Speaker gave the assurance at a meeting with the Private Enterprises Federation (PEF) in Parliament on Tuesday.
Kwabena seems to be unwilling to be a suicide bomber.
Kwabena and Abena were out on the balcony at two in the morning.
Then, he’ll patiently take off the dresses one after the other and heap them on the floor till none is left on him
Praise specific actions.
Others are finicky and will accept only work that meets their highest expectations.
James is having a hard time deciding what to wear to the party.
Some are devastated by the slightest criticism.
I tried to hide my disappointment.
Having a balanced diet shouldn’t take the joy out of eating, nor does it require that you obsess about every morsel of food you take into your body
So in dealing with the advanced countries, we need to adapt what they are using”, he urged
Dormitory infrastructural constraints in the school disabled the school from admitting hundreds of first-year students who wanted to be boarders.
In the meantime, we want them to suspend the strike,” he stated.
I don't care who Kwabena talks to.
Melody Owusu was rushed to Margret Marquart Catholic Hospital in Kpando for medical attention.
Tensions were high during the fourth ordinary session of the Fifth Parliament of the Pan African Parliament held in Johannesburg, South Africa to find a replacement for the incumbent President, Cameroonian Roger Nkodo Dang.
The timing for finding a viable solution is driven by the goodwill of the parties to share data and cooperate”,
The temperature fell to five degrees below zero.
A life was lost on May 17, 2021 after an underground mining pit which is part of the concession of Anglogold Ashanti Obuasi Mine, caved in and trapped some workers.
Have you and Kwabena ever worked together?
A development which led to the Acting Director and Management of the School taking a cue from the double-track system initiated in our Senior High Schools, to introduce a triple-track system,” he added.
Paul couldn't put up with the pain.
I have a return ticket to Osaka.
You can avoid these conflicts. First, though, you need to understand why you might miss important details in what your partner is saying—even though you think that you are listening
The Vice Chancellor expressed the sentiments in a speech read for him by the Principal of the Wa Campus of UDS, Prof. Sylvester Z. Galaa at the matriculation of graduate students pursuing sandwich programs in Wa.
“I encourage our workers to give in their best because at the end of the day they are going to pay for whatever they do. And once you have been paid for it, we need to go out there and do our best so that the programme would be a success.”
Mr. Chairman, as I mentioned earlier in my statement, I resigned from the board and management of Black Star Advisors in 2017.
Residents say, Sampson Ataafi suspected the lady of cheating, and trailed her new boyfriend at about 1:00 am on Tuesday, May 25.
Softening your tone and acknowledging your partner’s point of view are potent tools you can employ to diffuse tension and end escalation.
Achimota School has backed down on a decision to freeze the court order to admit the two Rastafarians boys to the school.
I can't tell you how much I've been looking forward to your visit.
Excessive debt also brings health risks, such as insomnia, headaches, stomachaches, heart attacks, and depression
Mr Polley was speaking at the Ghana Statistical Service (GSS) 10-day intensive training workshop for potential field officers in the Ellembelle District of the Western Region.
This hall holds two thousand people.
With the way things are going, agitations are getting higher and if care is not taken, we may add members with those other departments.
The teacher said we had to learn all these expressions by heart.
So, let us be up and doing always.
Put a ‘price tag’ next to each category, projecting how much it will cost you within a given time, perhaps a month.
The entire Law Village Project, according to the President, will cost about US$55 million.
Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal, in the determination of his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him.
When you focus on effort, however, you foster resilience.
I love it when Yaw asks questions. It shows me that he’s interested in what I’m saying.
Everyone has duties to the community in which alone the free and full development of his personality is possible.
I found the book at that bookstore by chance.
The two parties met on Wednesday at the La Palm Royal Beach Hotel to sign the MoU to expedite Ghana’s digital transformation drive.
Over 852,000 have so far received the first jab in the first phase of the vaccination exercise.
Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Mr Evans Kessie told the Court that Ruth was a trader, living at Shukura near Dansoman.
She added that he defiled her several times. ASP Larye said in view of the trauma the 10-year-old has
endured over the period, a Psychologist has been engaged to counsel her.
He expects everyone to treat him as special.
This intervention, he further took notice, will help decrease the number of malaria cases, “we see at a particular time or in a month.”
This represents an increase of about 4 percent, and brings Ghana’s total public debt as of the end of March 2021 to GHS 304.6 billion.
He makes mistakes every time he speaks English.
It has to do with sharp practice and unethical behaviour by some lawyers, which jeopardise the administration of justice and the interests of ordinary people. It has to do with judicial corruption, which, a priori, constitutes a violation of the judicial oath.
The government has thus introduced the double intake system to accommodate the overflow.
“We want foreign investment, there is no doubt about that.
Now ask one of your parents the same question
But the IT consultant is disturbed that Ghana and other African countries “tend to leapfrog on technological advancement and not going through the same pathway that other advanced countries use.”
I thought it was a lot of fun.
Additionally, he expressed appreciation to the MP for understanding a number of infrastructure projects in the town.
But is that really how you want to treat someone whom you have vowed to love?
The development sparked a huge debate on social media, with many criticising the government for failing to ensure that the ambulance was being used for the purpose it was intended for.
“I encourage our workers to give in their best because at the end of the day they are going to pay for whatever they are doing. And once you have been paid for it, we need to go out there and do our best so that the programme would be a success.”
Dozens of miners are reported trapped in the illegal mining pit.
When we travel, we can easily forget about our stressors and recharge.
He stated that they heard the sound of the gun and rushed out to figure out what it was only to find their colleague had been killed.
he added that he would let us know later about the results of the examination.
One other staff who sensed danger when the two men stepped into the premises, dashed to the washroom to place a phone call to a neighbour, Collins Dapaah, for help.
After all, a good marriage is the union of two good friends.
I want to do what I used to do before I went to prison.
The suspects are in police custody assisting with the Police investigation.
Her mother's body was only chanced upon on Thursday. Rescuers told Beijing Youth Daily that when they discovered her body, it was frozen in a position that seemed like she was lifting something up.
When she speaks, the world listens.
Everyone has the right to an effective remedy by the competent national tribunals for acts violating the fundamental rights granted him by the constitution or by law.
All Joe wanted was for Fati to love him as much as he loved her.
The Chief of Tinjase, Ubor Mamunin II, lauded Mr. Bless for initiating the school projects.
“It shows the deep roots of friendship that exists between the two communities since independence,” he added.
Point out how chores benefit others and how others will appreciate and respect him for doing them.
How? Together you might prepare a list of people in need of help with shopping, transportation, or repair work.
These figures demonstrate how the growth of our economy is gradually depend on digital structures in bringing meaningful changes to business and society at large.
ust because you have the money to buy something does not necessarily mean that you should.
If God did not exist, it would be necessary to invent him.
If we don’t get police protection; we cannot feel safe.”
I returned the books I borrowed from the library, and I borrowed some new ones.
No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits.
“We have not really benefited from the extraction of our natural resources, and it is for this reason that
we need especially in the area of our minerals, to bring a new paradigm, a new thinking into how as a
country we can benefit more from our mineral resources,” the Vice President took notice.
Parliament just passed the Ghana Integrated Bauxite Authority Bill.
The more you study, the more you discover your ignorance.
The Roads and Highway Ministry has refuted claims that road construction under the Akufo-Addo administration cost $2 million per kilometre
She added Africans have the expertise, the best weather and content creators, hence the only thing left are investors to fund projects.
Rather than think of that as a drawback, consider the advantage.
Additionally, he expressed appreciation to the MP for understanding a number of infrastructure projects in the town.
He kept badgering her until she told him what he wanted to know.
So he killed the girl through the trap door, but fortunately, the girl survived, but the bullet hit her on the left breast.
This elevator's capacity is ten people.
Kwabena advised us to leave early and avoid the morning traffic.
Communicating about money will help to maintain peace in your marriage.
I'm sure you're aware that you'll be the only one there who can't speak French.
As is public knowledge, I am the Secretary to the President and not the President’s was speakingsperson.”
The deceased’s father reported to police that a day before his daughter’s demise, she complained to him that she was severely assaulted by her husband, and that had led to the death of her daughter.
If I forgive, I am inviting further mistreatment.
If your daughter fails a test, perhaps that should be a wake-up call to her so that next time she will be better prepared.
Even if they are incompatible, having all aspects of the matter on paper will help you and your partner to see the issue more clearly.
It may appear, though, that many think only of themselves.
Marriage shall be entered into only with the free and full consent of the intending partners.
So at first, I ruled my family as if I were a monarch.
“This is the President of the Republic.
A similar incident occurred in October 2020 where five persons were reported dead after they were trapped in a mining pit in the same district. 5 others who were also trapped in the cave sustained varied injuries after the incident.
Kwabena leaned over to put on his shoes.
Presided over by Chief Justice, Justice Kwesi Anin Yeboah, a five-member panel of the Supreme Court asked the state to pay interest at the prevailing rate from November 28, 2014, to the date of payment to NDK.
We are beginning to know the persons behind the illegal galamsey activities.
On the other hand, the thinking was that showing any type of disapproval will only discourage a child.
According to him, in all his public service, he has always put the interest of Ghana first in every decision he has taken.
The second phase of Ghana’s COVID-19 vaccination exercise has started across the country but with incidents of undue delays at various centers.
In the midst of COVID-19, under Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, these students courageously sat for the exam and obtained a score of 66.05%.
Take for example, suppose your son is showing a tendency to brag. Uncorrected, he could become conceited and begin to alienate others.
That would hardly help your daughter learn humility.
If this is happening in your marriage, you can stop the pattern.
I want to assure them that this particular activity, I will not relent on it, and I am going to the extent of petitioning the IMF and the World Bank, I will also petition the International Investor community and I will petition CHRAJ to look into this.
How can you prevent that from happening to you?
He also challenged the ‘inherent jurisdiction of the Supreme Court based on which the AG had filed the application.
Phase One of the project complementing the facilities of the Accra Main Campus located at Makola, at a cost of US$4 million).
“When completed, these facilities will help to decongest the high number of pupils in the classrooms, promote reading culture among pupils and also provide comfort for teachers who sit under trees to mark scripts,” he added.
More importantly, as a bank…you must know that GCB is not just a bank, we are a national bank, we are a catalyst for development in this country.
The victim was rushed to the Manhyia Hospital for treatment but was pronounced dead on arrival.
“One of the things I want to do is to engage civil society to present drafts on the proposed amendments that will better serve the business community.
Granted, some of your peers might take a casual view of dating.
This digitization journey takes some time, I know where GCB is coming from.
He promised to visit the ancient town as soon as possible to strengthen the relationship.
“We don’t want the raw bauxite being taken out of Ghana anymore.
he added Parliament will directly engage them on the drafting of amendments to laws that affect their operations in order to ensure that their concerns are fully addressed.
The investment banker who has always chased after equalisation called a friend of hers after the incident and said, “Jack, I give up, I am no more talking about equalisation, all I am talking about now is equity because as a woman entrepreneur and female leader, there will always come a time where you need to sacrifice some major transactions for family duties.”
thus, encourage your child to identify those in need.
At that meeting on April 12, 2021, at the Indian High Commission in Accra, the High Commissioner, Mr. Rajaram expressed his desire to visit Yendi saying “it will be exciting and great for India to collaborate with the people of Yendi in areas of skills training, information, technology, and medicine,”
Management, staff, the board over the In the previous years have invested heavily a lot in technology.
Peter didn't say how he was planning to get there.
Mr. Mahama says even though he is disappointed by the verdict of the apex court on the Election Petition, he is “legally bound” to accept it.
She seems to get fatter and fatter.
You might find that the aspects that you both feel strongest about are not really all that incompatible.
Here I was torn between going to the hospital and being with my daughter or honouring that appointment,” she added.
Belgium accounts for 32 deaths and 18 missing, according to its national crisis center.
Although she still believes equalisation is great, she argues it is equally good to have equity on the table as well.
The interest in Willian came after his relationship with previous Chelsea head coach Antonio Conte broke down.
I felt somebody pat me on the shoulder.
Whereas the peoples of the United Nations have in the Charter reaffirmed their faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the equal rights of men and women and have determined to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom,
At least 133 people died in Germany due to the heavy floods across its western states.
“I have been reliably informed that 1,000 students were admitted during the 2020/2021 academic year.
You could stubbornly insist until you get your way
Yet, this is the President who has opened up the most space in the political governance arena.
His comment comes as a response to the ongoing speculation by some Ghanaians insisting that aside military officials unjustly destroying excavators and other mining equipment of miners, pieces of gold chanced upon on the site are seized.
The objective of an apology is to restore peace and happiness.
The question is what for.
Ever since international gold trading started over 400 years ago in the ‘Gold Coast’ at ‘El Mina’ has the winning of the precious metal become an existentialist threat like now.
The region has seen massive floods because of record rainfall, with at least 51 dead and nearly 400,000 people evacuated from their homes.
At that meeting on April 12, 2021, at the Indian High Commission in Accra, the High Commissioner, Mr. Rajaram expressed his desire to visit Yendi saying “it will be exciting and great for India to collaborate with the people of Yendi in areas of skills training, information, technology, and medicine,”
The enemy gave in without further resistance.
The listing of structures is slated for June 13, 2021 across the country with census Night being June 27, 2021.
“They returned on Saturday, sprinkled petrol on the generator plant, and around our office facility and set fire into them.
Right now, all I want to do is sleep for a few hours.
I am sure in the next 20 years, cash will be scarce in a lot of countries including Ghana, and I think Ghana is moving quite quickly towards that stage”, he added.
The shake-up is part of ongoing reforms to decentralize the licensing regime and enhance monitoring of mining operations.
Speaking at this year's Asafotufiami of the people of Ada, president Akufo-Addo said, the new system will rather reduce class size, increase teaching hours and number of holidays among others.
You can't drink seawater because it's too salty.
The Ellembelle District Census Officer, Mr Isaac Polley, has expressed worry over how a section of the public was “playing politics” with the census exercise and called for a stop to the practice.
The incident occurred on March 26, 2021, but the Ambulance Service’s attention was drawn to the development only when the video went viral on social media.
“We have to literally break the banks, borrowed money that we have never borrowed before, exceed some of the very fine statistical limits that we have put in place.
Whereas disregard and contempt for human rights have resulted in barbarous acts which have outraged the conscience of mankind, and the advent of a world in which human beings shall enjoy freedom of speech and belief and freedom from fear and want has been proclaimed as the highest aspiration of the common people,
Some are devastated by the slightest criticism.
Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country, directly or through freely chosen representatives.
We want him to lead the lawful Republic of Ghana in accordance with his oath to uphold the constitution and the laws of Ghana and to hold himself accountable to the laws of Ghana.
He went to London a month ago.
But it turned out to be an act of robbery.
Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat for a white passenger.
Also, in November 2020, an illegal small-scale mining pit in the outskirts of Ayanfuri collapsed and trapped eight persons between the ages of 24 and 35 years.
My husband is a man of few words. But I’m used to my family.
He later called for the setting up of an interim leadership committee to steer the affairs of the continental body while preparations are made for the general elections.
Mr Polley was speaking at the Ghana Statistical Service (GSS) 10-day intensive training workshop for potential field officers in the Ellembelle District of the Western Region.
“We know that they do that from 9:00pm to 4:00am. That’s how brave they are. We know, and we know the towns they are doing it in, so we will come after you. Don’t try it,” Mr. Nitiwul warned.
The GSS is the lead agency for the conduct of the Census and has divided the country into 51,921 enumeration areas to ensure easy collection of geospatial data across the 260 metropolitan, municipal, and district assemblies.
Medical oxygen becomes essential for treatment of severe COVID-19 patients.
We need money to do anything.
Can you at least pretend you want to be here?
Do I let my children know that at times I also need help from others?
Asamoah doesn't think that Abena did all her homework by herself.
These figures demonstrate how the growth of our economy is gradually relying on digital structures in bringing meaningful changes to business and society at large.
Ghana’s total public debt stock has increased once again according to new data released by the Bank of Ghana.
Robotics engineers are developing equipment to help doctors operate in tight spaces in the body using minimally invasive surgical techniques.
The President was expectant that the completion of the Law Village will expand access to legal education, without compromising on its quality, and, ultimately, assist in the administration of justice throughout the country.
Kwabena decided it wasn't his job to tell Abena about what John had done.
The entire Law Village Project, according to the President, will cost about US$55 million.
Members of the Indian Community in Ghana have lauded the prompt offer of help, which came from Ghanaians of diverse backgrounds.
Really, if your teen never learns to make decisions for himself while at home, how will he know how to make them after he leaves?
The Minister of Roads and Highways has revealed that President Akufo-Addo was on the verge of weeping when he travelled on the Hamile road in the Upper West Region, sometime ago.
Do you have two books?
This event took place on Wednesday, 19th May 2021, when President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, held a meeting with the President of the European Investment Bank, Dr. Werner Hoyer, as part of his official visit to Belgium.
When on a slippery surface, though, the lizards tend to stumble and jump at the wrong angle.
From the direction that he was going in, I would say he was headed to town.
In March 2019, when the parties appeared before the court, then-Deputy Attorney General, Godfred Yeboah Dame told the court that as far as the government is concerned, it has already complied with the judgment of the Supreme Court, but NDK continued to make substantiated’ claims for much more money.
Every time you get together with your friends, you pair off with the same person of the opposite sex. Are you dating?
Over and above that, I think we need to reposition ourselves [GCB Bank} as to how we select some government initiatives and see how we implement them, how we support government to implement some of their initiatives; around manufacturing, value addition, exports driven market.
It seems that no one knew the truth.
But I think we are on the right track, I think we are well pluck into the journey; we have invested in automating our front office, we invested heavily in our back house, we’ve tried to develop digital platforms to our customers so they can work from home, our customers can access the bank from anywhere.”
Many times young bullies treat other people . . . the way they see their parents, older brothers and sisters, or other family members treat others
Over the years, the adoption and growth of digital technologies, especially digital payment solutions, have created opportunities for businesses and individuals alike.
Parliament just passed the Ghana Integrated Bauxite Authority Bill.
The rain and floods have wreaked chaos across the province in the last week. Major roads have been turned into rivers, with cars, debris and even people swept along by fast-moving currents.
You saved us all.
Kwadwo Obeng Jnr doubled Hearts’ lead on the stroke of halftime to score in his third consecutive game.
The residents can now heave a sigh to relief as wholly-owned Ghanaian company sets up an e-commerce business Centre at Kumasi City Mall to relief customers and business owners of the stress they go through on a regular basis.
Film and television comedies turn rude speech into a laughing matter, leaving the viewer with the impression that it is harmless—or even funny.
I began this address by indicating that I wanted us to be frank in our discussions about ourselves and about our conduct in the practice of our profession.
When is it a bad idea?’ ‘What’s an interest rate?’ ‘When have you bought something because someone else thought you should?’”
Those exceptions must be entitled to address their grievance in the context of the state institutions of redress, especially the judicial process.
he added when all stakeholders contribute their quota to improve teaching and learning environment in schools, pupils would perform better.
All are equal before the law and are entitled without any discrimination to equal protection of the law.
Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person.
I'd like to have a word with you about what happened yesterday.
Mr. Alex Bram believes that making good use of the online platfoem (the Hubtel app)will help make the prices of the item stable.
Dr Mensah also wondered how the Akufo-Addo led government has borrowed so much with little to show for in terms of infrastructural development.
My wife spends money as if I were the richest man in town.
Ransford is suspicious of Europeans.
Rita AtsufuiKoffie admitted the offence and she was convicted on her own plea but sentence was deferred to Thursday.
What language do they speak in Switzerland?
WHY IS HUMILITY VERY IMPORTANT?
Our lawyers will say we have given them an invitation to treat.
This is not any personal attack against her. I am speaking to the facts.”
Offering solutions is his way of showing his wife that she can rely on him for help
Mr Amoako-Atta stated that the 6,000 kilometres of roads to be completed falls under critical, cocoa, town roads and asphalt overlays, and the Sinohydro Master Project Support Facility.
The prosecutor said a complaint was lodged with the Domestic Violence and Victim Support Unit of the Police Service at Odorkor, where a medical report form was issued to the complainant, the father, to send the victim to the hospital.
The more slippery the platform, the more the lizard must raise its tail to ensure a safe landing
“These illegal activities were mostly being done in the night or under the cover of darkness protected by heavily armed guards, as used cartridges were chanced upon at the sites.
The President was expectant that the completion of the Law Village will expand access to legal education, without compromising on quality, and, ultimately, assist in the administration of justice throughout the country.
The party was established to empower the people of Ghana to be architects of our own destiny.
In view of that, the Road Ministry’s Chief Director has called on the citizenry to be supportive as well as hold the government accountable for the comprehensive development of the road and highways sector.
The most important thing, however, is for the banks to be responsive.
Everyone gets lonely at times; it’s just a matter of degree. And while loneliness can be a devastating feeling, in the end it’s just that​—a feeling.
Kwabena told Abena that it was too cold to go outside without a coat.
Even good people make mistakes, perhaps repeatedly.
Kasser keeps a diary.
“It shows the deep roots of friendship that exists between the two communities since independence,” he added.
Recently, the Defence Minister, Dominic Nitiwul, warned illegal miners working at night that they do so at their own risk.
He gave me his stamp of approval.
In an interview with Adom News, Kasoa DOVVSU Commander, ASP Dories Larye Aggrey said, the mother
of the victim asked her daughter to live with the suspect when their friendship became intimate.
The Hon. Greater Accra Regional Minister, embarks on a major clean up in response to our own complaints about a clean Accra and immediately, his methods, some of which are necessary, are questioned when the affected people are mostly breaking the law and rules with impunity.
Speaking at this year's Asafotufiami of the people of Ada, president Akufo-Addo said, the new system will rather reduce class size, increase teaching hours and number of holidays among others.
Security officials say some of the money given to the man was allegedly taken from Tala’s accounts.
The ceremony took place at the Academic Enclave near the University of Ghana Business School.
The hospital staff reported late to their duty
When your daughter was a child, she told you everything. Now as a teenager, she has formed a ‘social club’ with her friends, and you feel as if you were not granted membership.
Our company's first priority is meeting our customers' needs.
I am sure in the next 20 years, cash will be scarce in a lot of countries including Ghana, and I think Ghana is moving quite quickly towards that stage”, he added.
“So if you go out there to mine, I can't guarantee your safety when the soldiers are going to apprehend you.
The census was originally scheduled for 2020, but will now take place from the 27th of June 2021.
The Ashanti regional capital, Kumasi which is one of the fastest-growing cities in Africa has not fully taken advantage of the e-commerce space as many residents still go through traffic as part of their busy schedules in order to purchase items.
However, speaking on the City Breakfast Show today, the Ada West DCE told host Bernard Avle, that the ambulance designated to the Sege Constituency was at post on the added day, and hence, the one seen in the video could not possibly belong to his district capital.
Do not pressure your mate to correct the children.
There isn't a grain of truth in what he says.
A life was lost on May 17, 2021 after an underground mining pit which is part of the concession of Anglogold Ashanti Obuasi Mine, caved in and trapped some workers.
That irritates you even more.
Having benefited from such a facility, the present initiative serves as a kind gesture of gratitude from Ghanaians towards India.
She added that he defiled her several times. ASP Larye said in view of the trauma the 10-year-old has
endured over the period, a Psychologist has been engaged to counsel her.
Some husbands and wives withhold forgiveness to maintain a sort of power over their partner.
Politeness and respect go a long way
I try to have balanced meals from all food groups.
Mr. Anamoah-Mensah said this on the second day of the Citi Business Festival on Wednesday, June 2, 2021, on the Citi Breakfast Show.
Speaking to the media at a news conference, the Public Relations Officer of the Ashante Regional Police Command, ASP Godwin Ahianyo, called on the public to assist them to arrest the culprits.
“I did not have to sacrifice my family just to pursue a career.
Brazil is surrounded by ten countries and the Atlantic Ocean.
This is because of the embarrassment and pain they go through during this period”.
No matter how compatible you and your partner may seem to be, your views on some matters will differ. Why? Because no two people are exactly alike​—a fact that can add either variety or tension to marriage.
“We will be law-abiding and do nothing to compromise the stability of the country.
In principle we are not opposed to unitization, but this needs to follow an appropriate, shared work programme and evaluation process to assess the elements listed above before taking decisions in the interest of all parties.
The incident occurred on March 26, 2021, but the Ambulance Service’s attention was drawn to the development only when the video went viral on social media.
“The problem we have in this country sadly is that our medical laboratory scientists do not appreciate their limitation. Two hematologists- where should they go and practice?
Then don’t do that to someone else!
They should have told us that when we get here, we need to go for re-registration. They should have done that.”
As part of his visit, the High Commissioner and the MP shall pay a courtesy call on the Yaa-Naa, and also hold crunch meeting with the MP and other dignitaries, and visit the Yendi Water Project site.
Three of the burnt excavators and a bulldozer were brand new being used for reclamation.
Management, staff, the board over the In the previous years have invested heavily a lot in technology.
Such a spirit would make you hard to live with and could seriously harm your marriage.
If you travel with your partner, you will quickly learn how you each communicate and how you can improve your relationship.
In March, residents of Ho were also thrown into a state of shock after a lady believed to be in her mid-twenties was chanced upon dead in a hotel room.
Keep a record of all money moving in or out of your household for two weeks​—or a month, if that is more practical.
And I think that the investment the bank has made over the last couple of years has been worthy.
Meanwhile, residents who live in Buokrom Estate say the level of insecurity in the area is worrying.
Talk to someone about your loneliness. Don’t keep your feelings hidden. Chances are, there are several other people you know who feel the same way you do. Sometimes all you need is one friend to keep you afloat
In another six months you will be able to speak German fluently.
The military also assaulted security men on duty.
Berekum Chelsea were victorious against Bofoakwa Tano FC, beating them 2-1.
People living in this area are dying because of the lack of water.
Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.
Moderation is always a good rule to follow
This will make you better able to understand what your mate is saying
He added, “if you are forced to marry or you force yourself to marry, you might not enjoy a successful marriage life because the love might not be there”.
Dr. Adjei explained that LSM was basically to control the vector that carries the malaria parasite.
There should even be a police checkpoint over here.
Dr. Bossman Asare said election is not about theory but practical.
He killed an arrow at the soldier.
One of the robbers manned the entrance, as the other demanded money after shooting thrice into the roof of the building, said one of the workers.
Some partners use silence as a form of revenge.
The London Book Fair International Excellence Awards is organized by the London Book Fair in partnership with the Publishers Association (United Kingdom) to celebrate publishing achievements across seven categories.
Reduce your expenses.
A wife might write, “You got upset because I spent time with my friends.”
Confining him may only make him want to escape; constantly criticizing his friends might only increase their appeal; eavesdropping could compel him to find ways to communicate with his friends behind your back.
“People are being transferred to the laboratory space and you [laboratory scientists] are driving them away and because of that, there is a national strike.
In Madagascar, the Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA) is training people to grow successful vegetable gardens, raise poultry, and make handcrafts to supplement lost income during the COVID-19 pandemic.
But you may have paused before responding to the second and the third.
I was flabbergasted.
I assure all of you that this project is the start of greater things to come for the Ghana School of Law.
So before you’re ready to focus on one particular person, you need to take time to study a very important “subject”—how to build friendships.
Are you intentionally trying to confuse me?
Chances are, your answer is different from that of your parent.
If you are a parent, how can you help your children to reap the benefits of being kind and to avoid being contaminated by the self-absorbed culture that surrounds them?
You could get into the Guinness Book of World Records as the heaviest drinker.
Consider three traps that could foster a me-first spirit in your children, and see how you can avoid those traps.
Mr. Bless told the Daily Graphic in an interview that the projects were meant to facilitate teaching and learning in the school.
He stressed: “Today you see a deficit of 11%, you see debt to GDP ratio over 70%, you see revenues are falling, you see expenditure is challenged.
You could passively surrender to your partner’s wishes.
It means that we are going to intensify the strike action, by involving other members who were exempted from the strike action,” he warned.
According to him, the application of larvicide is crucial in combating the development state of the vector.
26-year-old Jay Dordoye is said to have slit his girlfriend’s throat and tried hanging himself after the incident. After failing in hanging himself, he resorted to stabbing himself multiple times.
Are you and your partner unable to discuss things calmly? Does it feel as if you are always walking through a minefield in which any step could set off an explosive dispute?
This planned visit on Tuesday, 25th May, is in fulfillment of his pledge.
What does what happened last night have to do with what's happening today?
The €170 million facility, according to Dr. Hoyer, is the largest facility provided by the European Investment Bank for the establishment of a development bank in Africa or for any other project, for that matter, on the continent.
The Chief Director’s clarification was necessitated by reactions that followed Road Minister, Kwesi Amoako-Atta’s press briefing which focused on road projects being undertaken by the government.
The closed banks were said to be facing liquidity challenges. Earlier this year, UT Bank and Capital Bank also faced the same liquidation problem.
We are challenging the minister to pay us well and then we’ll provide the quality he wants.
I did not have to sacrifice my family just to pursue a career.
Ten other officers, including the plane’s crew, also died.
“This is the President of the Republic.
“We will be law-abiding and do nothing to compromise the stability of the country.
A sudden illness prevented me from going to the station to meet him.
His assurance comes days after President Akuffo Addo swore in the Chairperson, Jean Adukwei Mensa and her two deputies and a corporate legal practitioner, Adwoa Asuama Abrefa who is a member of the Commission.
It is said the decision comes after consultations with two stakeholders on the way forward.
The Speaker of Parliament, Alban S.K Bagbin, has assured the Ghanaian business community that Parliament remains committed to extensively engaging them on proposed amendments to laws that stifle the growth of local businesses.
With more complex issues, however, a husband and wife can strengthen their bond by brainstorming a solution that perhaps neither of them would have come up with alone.
And I think that the investment the bank has made over the last couple of years has been worthy.
The simple act of listening can play a large role in helping you control your anger.
Traveling builds resilience, and resilient people are typically happier.
I will make their issuance of bonds a murky business in 2021, and I urge the Appointments Committee to reject his nomination for the interest of mother Ghana.”
Humble people are respectful. They do not behave arrogantly, nor do they expect others to treat them as special.
Dating is no trivial matter.
The woman only became suspicious of Mr Anane when she visited his house in the capital, Nairobi, the police said.
Subsequently, GPRTU said they were in discussions with the government about the increase in transport fares but urged Ghanaians to expect a 10 to 15 per cent increase
And how what you have learnt in the classroom [during the Seeds Program] can be applied to solve the problem?
What is your reason for your being late to work?
So husbands are baffled when their solutions are not readily accepted.
We want him to lead the lawful Republic of Ghana in accordance with his oath to uphold the constitution and the laws of Ghana and to hold himself accountable to the laws of Ghana.
But is that really how you want to treat someone whom you have vowed to love?
The complaint has also featured prominently lately in the the reports of external examiners.
According to President Akufo-Addo, the double track system will not be applicable in all Senior High Schools but in schools facing infrastructure challenges due to a large number of students admitted under the free SHS programme.
That kind of compromise builds a ‘team’ atmosphere rather than a power struggle
Moderation is always a good rule to follow
Disrespect creates tension in the home and leads to bitter conflict.
For some, the stress becomes unbearable.
Limit your child’s use of social media.
According to him, no such meeting has taken place between him and anyone on the subject matter.
I have to go shopping.
She added, “The way the courses are designed and instructed is very practical, and i realize it engages the students in a lot of hands-on training, something most students at the University have given positive feedback on”.
CEO of ZEEPAY, Andrew Takyi Appiah, on his part said the Central Bank should not relent on its efforts in enforcing its directives so as to bring sanity into the financial sector.
Your daughter failed a test? Intervene and demand that the teacher raise the grade.
You might say something along these lines: “I am sorry you had to hear that. Your Mom is mad at me, and sometimes when people are angry, they say things that aren’t kind.
Whereas disregard and contempt for human rights have resulted in barbarous acts which have outraged the conscience of mankind, and the advent of a world in which human beings shall enjoy freedom of speech and belief and freedom from fear and want has been proclaimed as the highest aspiration of the common people,
Work is expected to be completed in 10 months.
Defence Minister, Dominic Nitiwul has refuted assertions that military officials deployed to stop illegal mining have confiscated gold from galamsey sites.
Your adolescent whines, “You’re treating me like a child!” Before replying, “Well, you’re acting like one,
We have to sacrifice all that so we can pump resources into ensuring that today you and I are still alive and we are not like India,” he told the media in Tamale.
The rain and floods have wreaked chaos across the province in the last week. Major roads have been turned into rivers, with cars, debris and even people swept along by fast-moving currents.
Moreover, burning equipment is an expensive waste and has failed before and that rather, equipment should be seized, processed through court and used for other productive purposes by needy state institutions.
Even if they are incompatible, having all aspects of the matter on paper will help you and your partner to see the issue more clearly.
Whether you take a short, local trip or a major vacation to another country, travel can help you relax
The Vice Chancellor of UDS, Prof Teye equally requested all heads of departments to make use of plagiarism software known as “Turn-it-in” acquired by the University to improve the originality of all research work.
The training, which took place in Kumasi, was organised by Zoomlion Ghana Limited (ZGL) in partnership with the Ghana Health Service (GHS) under its National Malaria Control Programme (NAMCOP) and Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research (NMIMR).
The Laboratory Scientists have been on a sit-down strike for close to a week now, in protest against the decision.
We are pleading with the government to bring policemen here.
We have recently been able to work on the data thanks to the intervention of the Ministry of Energy and delivered our analysis in the direction of finding a viable solution regarding the potential optimization of the recovery of oil reserves”, it added.
I was just wondering if I could borrow three hundred dollars from you. I can pay you back next Monday.
The listing of structures is slated for June 13, 2021 across the country with census Night being June 27, 2021.
My business collapsed during the Greek financial crisis, so we could no longer keep up with our mortgage and credit-card payments. I couldn’t sleep because of the stress
As soon as it’s safe in your area, plan a trip with your family, friends, or partner, and enjoy your new experiences!
Emma felt the urge to run away.
Mr. Suleymana outlined some efficiency measures being rolled out to up the game in service delivery.
“We want foreign investment, there is no doubt about that.
The President, on Wednesday, 26th May, 2021, cut the sod for the first phase of construction works to begin on the Law Village of the Ghana Law School.
The chief enumerated a number of infrastructure projects the MP carried out in the area, including rural electrification, mechanized boreholes, CHPS compounds, school buildings, and a communication tower.
Of that amount, about GHS18 billion of it was funded through borrowing, and the rest came to us as grants, [along with] some monies from the Stabilisation Fund.”
The President of PEF, Nana Osei Bonsu, who led the delegation, said it was time for the legislature to create a periodic dialogue platform where issues affecting the private sector could be discussed with members of the House.
The earthquake was the greatest disaster the country had ever experienced.
Industry leaders from academia and ICT ecosystem have praised Huawei’s ICTN Academy and other talent cultivation initiatives of Huawei as a step in the right direction and critical for equipping the youth to be professionals whiles remaining globally.
Germany's federal disaster relief organization said it was very unlikely that any more survivors would be chanced upon.
Kwabena broke his right leg and was taken to hospital a few weeks before Christmas.
For example, suppose your partner says: “You’ve spent a lot of extra time at work this week.”
The teacher wrote his name on the blackboard.
Many a bad headline can be traced to a law and order problem. In our country, currently, the problems confronting our banking sector are dominating the headlines, as they should. The story of every bank that has had problems, be they indigenous Ghanaian banks or international banks, like Barings Bank, Lehman Brothers, Bank of Credit and Commerce International (BCCI), each one can be traced to someone or some people breaking the law, or trying to cut corners by flouting regulations. The effects of these acts of lawlessness have been, invariably, the loss, and threat of loss, of innocent depositors’ savings and jobs.
“In fact, this particular programme would help so much in tackling mosquitoes from the larvae stage,” he added.
As professionals, we will behave accordingly and ensure that the best comes out of the children that we teach because we are professionals,” he added on Tuesday.
Whereas it is essential to promote the development of friendly relations between nations,
In a statement, the miner said the incident occurred on Tuesday morning and “immediately triggered a search and rescue effort”.
The move, according to Star News sources at the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources, is aimed at ensuring efficiency at the Commission.
I want you out of here right now.
President Muhammadu Buhari has said he is“deeply saddened” by the crash.
And how can you solve this problem?
Mr Polley said the training would adopt a participant-centred approach, which involved lectures, video presentations, face-to-face interactions, mock interviews, assessment and field practice.
You may also find yourself bonding with your significant other more than usual and connecting with them on a much deeper level.
he added elections will be conducted in such a way that what people will choose will at the end of the day become those who will lead the country at the district, parliamentary and Presidential levels.
“What is disturbing is that the excavators that have been taken from the mining sites are packed in towns, villages and by roadsides in clusters of 10 to 20, and there is a very high tendency that these excavators will find their way back to the galamsey sites during the night when our operations halt.”
Dr Darku further denied assertions that his outfit has inadequate staff to properly supervise road projects across the country, “the Ghana Highway Authority has a total of 173 Engineers across the country, the Department of Urban Roads has 86 and Department of Feeder Roads has 143.”
You could stubbornly insist until you get your way
Learning to maintain a excited, balanced marriage relationship is like learning to ride a bicycle.
Other items chanced upon on the suspects included; knives, a pair of scissors, some leaves suspected to be Indian hemp wrapped in plastic bags and some mobile phones.
He then directed me to work on the road. Today, my engineers are here, that road to Hamile is done and brought to a bituminous level” he added.
I didn't think he would come.
Really, dating is any social activity in which your romantic interest is focused on one particular person and that person’s interest is focused on you.
A development which led to the Acting Director and Management of the School taking a cue from the double-track system initiated in our Senior High Schools, to introduce a triple-track system,” he added.
The least she can do is commend the hard-working teachers and heads of this nation who supported these students through thick or thin because they did the impossible.”
Men tend to think in terms of solutions. That is understandable because fixing things makes a man feel useful.
The deceased, Yaw Eyifa Gorman, popularly known as Dr Sting, was killed in his car after he returned home from a training programme on Population Census
Dating should have an honorable purpose—to help a young man and woman determine if they want to get married to each other.
“She does not state the date of the meeting, the place where the meeting took place, and the names of the elders and chiefs who accompanied her to the alleged meeting.
Otherwise, you may end up debating over what was said instead of focusing on what was meant.
Your son received a traffic ticket? Pay the fine for him. A failed romance? Lay all the blame on the other person.
Here are four reasons why traveling makes you excited:
You’re online, looking at photos of a recent party.
Are there many flowers in the garden?
Kwadwo Obeng Jnr doubled Hearts’ lead on the stroke of halftime to score in his third consecutive game.
ARE you raising an adolescent? If so, you are witnessing one of the most fascinating stages of your child’s growth.
He, thus, commended the organizers for putting together the training programme, pointing out that “we need to equip field workers so that they can do their work well.”
They burnt everything in the room including the Television set, DSTV decoder and our personal belongings,” Nana Asante Boadi Yeboah Secretary at the mining site told Starr News.
According to him, no such meeting has taken place between him and anyone on the subject matter.
You see evidence of that nearly everywhere—from the shameless way people defraud others to the aggressive way they drive, from their crude language to their explosive tempers.
Every time you get together with your friends, you pair off with the same person of the opposite sex. Are you dating?
I mean, why should I apologize if both of us messed up?”
he added the COVID-19 catastrophe knew no boundaries, and urged Ghanaians to continue to abide by the safety protocols to prevent another wave of the disease in the country.
It means that we are going to intensify the strike action, by involving other members who were exempted from the strike action,” he warned.
Otherwise, you may end up debating over what was said instead of focusing on what was meant.
Once they saw my harvest, they straightaway decided to learn as well.
The Roads and Highway Ministry has disproved claims that road construction under the Akufo-Addo administration cost $2 million per kilometre
“I know there are some who believe that the ongoing exercise of ridding our water bodies and forest zones of harmful equipment and machinery is unlawful and, in some cases, harsh.”
When I was younger I could remember anything, whether it happened or not.
The President indicated that the design and operation of the Bank, “which has been on the drawing board for the last two years”, will satisfy the highest standards, scrutiny and best practices of Development Banks across the world, assuring further that the €170 million facility from the EIB will be used for the purposes for which it was sought.”
Everything rises or falls on the back of the economy
Children who are praised for their hard work and perseverance rather than simply for their talents come to realize a vital truth​—that acquiring skill requires patience and effort
So I will advise you to not go out. It is not worth it.”
Indulging a child’s every wish can cause him to feel entitled.
The government of Ghana has thus been aggressively promoting a digital and cash-lite economy.
So what are you waiting for?
“I have been reliably informed that 1,000 students were admitted during the 2020/2021 academic year.
Each time a conflict arises, you and your partner unleash a torrent of criticism at each other.
A child who learns to perform humble tasks at home is more likely to work well with others as an adult
What does what happened last night have to do with what's happening today?
This isn't mine.
“I, thus, consider it necessary to put out this statement because the allegations made in the audio recording have no iota of truth, are pure fabrications, and are malicious, with the sole aim of courting public disaffection for me as a senior official of this government.”
Kofi Eshun has rejected outrightly all the claims by the unidentified woman. According to him, those allegations are “outright and blatant lies.”
he added the roads ministry is moving the defect liability period from 12 months to five years.
To maintain close association with one particular member of the opposite sex while you’re still in this phase can fan the flames of desire and lead to wrong conduct.
“The problem we have in this country sadly is that our medical laboratory scientists do not appreciate their limitation. Two hematologists- where should they go and practice?
Unknown gunmen have killed to death, a headteacher in his home at Cape Coast in the Central Region.
Germans are said to be hardworking.
Following an agitation by citizens, the National Petroleum Authority rescinded its decision to increase the fuel margin to 17 pesewas per litre
Mr Quansah made the call during his turn at the Assembly’s Town Hall Meeting at Sogakope.
Sometimes it’s hard to say ‘I’m sorry’ because my ego gets in the way,” admits a husband named Charles.
According to him, in all his public service, he has always put the interest of Ghana first in every decision he has taken.
Everyone charged with a penal offence has the right to be presumed innocent until proved guilty according to law in a public trial at which he has had all the guarantees necessary for his defence.
As such, he wants the AG summoned to Parliament “in accordance with Article 88 of the constitution, as the principal advisor to government, [to explain] why the President must not be held in check of being in breach of the laws of Ghana, and also provide some evidence to prove that burning of excavators is sanctioned, and I wait to see that.”
The current system is a rip-off
Images showed entire towns underwater, collapsed buildings, and buried cars.
We will use the law we will enforce the law to close their shops”.
Your partner has something important to say, but are you ready to listen? Perhaps not.
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property.
The crash comes three months to the day after a Nigerian military plane crashed short of a runway in the capital Abuja, killing all seven people on board.
Kwesi walked over to the woman with a drink in her hand and asked her what her name was.
Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association.
Rita AtsufuiKoffie admitted the offence and she was convicted on her own plea but sentence was deferred to Thursday.
“Once completed, the Law Village will boast of an additional seating capacity of one thousand five hundred (1,500) seats, a number of lecture halls, a well-resourced library, residential facilities, offices, amongst others,” he added.
“They come to view relationships as transitory—which in a sense prepares them for divorce rather than for marriage.”
I'm a bit confused because the police is still investigating the mysterious death of the professor.
Humility benefits your child’s future.
This kind of equipment could make it possible to operate on patients who otherwise would have to undergo more complex procedures.
Maintain a sense of humor. Take your mate’s concerns seriously, but learn to laugh at your own blunders.
For example, BBC News reported that a wife in southeastern India committed suicide after falling behind on payments for loans totaling the equivalent of $840 (U.S.)
White paint will brighten the room.
Although she’s surrounded by people who care about her, she still feels invisible and unlovable. She masks her low self-worth with a stern exterior.
She advised that men support women during menstruation.
he added upon a tip-off, the Police picked up Rita on September 9, 2020, at about 1600 hours with three buckets of the Indian hemp soaked in liquid, popularly known as “lacka” as well as quantity of the dried leaves.
This has been called a damaging form of “mind reading.”
They “read” with their nose.
Even when you are alone with your mate, resist the urge to use sarcasm and name-calling.
I think our clients have realized that over the last few years, in terms of technology, GCB Bank is transforming in getting into the digital space. GCB is moving from the traditional bank into a more contemporary.”
IF YOU are newly married, have you faced similar challenges? Does it seem that your mate suddenly has acquired faults and foibles that were absent when you were dating?
He thus described it as an “embarrassing stain” on the country’s judicial and electoral systems as well as a major source of worry to well-meaning Ghanaians.
Dormitory infrastructural constraints in the school disabled the school from admitting hundreds of first-year students who wanted to be boarders.
The South Tongu District Director of Agriculture, Ernest Quansah, has appealed on government to urgently
ban the reckless acquisition of lands along river banks by private investors.
“When completed, these facilities will help to decongest the high number of pupils in the classrooms, promote reading culture among pupils and also provide comfort for teachers who sit under trees to mark scripts,” he added.
Kwabena and Abena were out on the balcony at two in the morning.
Many households have lost their livelihoods because of the COVID-19 pandemic and are partially unable to meet their food and nutritional needs
This year, it is estimated that an additional 180 thousand more children will be admitted into SHS.
The Appointments Committee has, consequently, invited Memoranda on the nominees from the public
for consideration.
My husband, Yaw, was so depressed about our debt that he slept most of the day
Whereas the peoples of the United Nations have in the Charter reaffirmed their faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the equal rights of men and women and have determined to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom,
The story of every bank that has had problems, be they indigenous Ghanaian banks or international banks, like Barings Bank, Lehman Brothers, Bank of Credit and Commerce International (BCCI), each one can be traced to someone or some people breaking the law, or trying to cut corners by flouting regulations.
On Friday, May 14, this year, the Kaneshie District Court remanded the accused into Police custody but they applied for bail at the High Court.
Take this folding umbrella with you. It might come in handy.
I must observe that graduate students in the past have taken this requirement for granted and I wish to direct the Registrar to invoke the needed sanctions for students who willfully ignore this important prerequisite as part of the admission.”
This year, it is estimated that an additional 180 thousand more children will be admitted into SHS.
“I have been reliably informed that 1,000 students were admitted during the 2020/2021 academic year.
The Government needs precious time to retool regulations and bring responsible mining on stream.
Operation Halt taskforce on Sunday, May 16 2021, invaded the mining site of Kate Gyamfua at Akyem Pameng in Atew West District in the Eastern region and set ablaze eight excavators, a bulldozer and many water pumping machines.
The Deputy Northern Region Police Commander, DSP Moses Ocansey, said they had been “terrorizing innocent citizens in Tamale here.”
My father hardly ever consulted my mother about family decisions.
The woman, whose narration in the 2 minutes 5 seconds audio did not seem coherent, erroneously referred to Asante Bediatuo as the President’s was speakingsman.
I have just one ambulance.
Be honest and courteous in explaining your financial situation.
Some people say that it is impossible to give your child too much praise. Others claim that constant praise will spoil your child and make him feel entitled, as if the world owed him something.
The new debt figure brings Ghana’s debt to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) ratio to 70.2% as of the end of March 2021.
Think: Would you like someone to play with your feelings as if they were some child’s toy—to be picked up for a moment and then quickly abandoned?
But the IT consultant is disturbed that Ghana and other African countries “tend to leapfrog on technological advancement and not going through the same pathway that other advanced countries use.”
She added that he defiled her several times. ASP Larye said in view of the trauma the 10-year-old has
endured over the period, a Psychologist has been engaged to counsel her.
Sayings like “All your dreams can come true” and “You can be anything that you want to be” might sound inspiring, but they often do not prove true in real life.
He, thus, charged the nominees to respect the provisions of the Constitution regarding their nomination and subsequent approval or rejection by the House.
If you wrestle with such concerns, remember this: Independence is not a door that your child simply walks through; it is a road that he or she travels, and it takes years to complete the journey.
How long does it take to go to Madrid?
Often, though, such shallow relationships are short-lived.
The astronauts were greeted with cheers and applause of an enthusiastic crowd.
Meanwhile, the association hopes to foster good relationships with the municipality to enable them to empower and educate more teenagers.
Chelsea midfielder Willian has committed his future to the club, saying he has always been "very excited" at Stamford Bridge.
It is interesting to note that she does not put out any details of the alleged meeting.”
Reacting to that, Dominic Nitiwul took notice that these military officials are fully briefed and complying with the rules of engagement laid down by the incumbent government, thus, any item confiscated or destroyed is recorded and made known to the general public.
The country conducted a National Census in 1960, 1970, 1984, 2000, and 2010.
It's a difficult word to translate.
The GAF has said its officers, deployed to curb illegal mining on water bodies and in forest reserves, will not hesitate to destroy all equipment chanced upon at illegal mining sites.
His political equanimity is evident in his relations with the current Parliament, especially Rt. Hon Speaker. He has quickly accepted the verdict of Ghana to work together and is doing so.
Kwabena knew it was too late to call, but he called anyway.
Brazil is surrounded by ten countries and the Atlantic Ocean.
he added the COVID-19 catastrophe knew no boundaries, and urged Ghanaians to continue to abide by the safety protocols to prevent another wave of the disease in the country.
Or problems may come from outside sources and unexpected events.
Be sure to put out the fire before you leave.
Many times young bullies treat other people . . . the way they see their parents, older brothers and sisters, or other family members treat others
Accra Circuit Court on Wednesday convicted a 47-year-old woman for possessing Indian hemp.
Referee Sulemana Latif has been suspended from football related activities for the rest of the season for failing to award a clear penalty as well as other incorrect decisions in the Division One League match between Skyy FC and Pacific Heroes FC.
The radio announcer had a masculine voice.
This new thinking, the Vice President emphasised, was the guiding principle behind the decision to
leverage a fraction of Ghana’s vast bauxite deposits to build an integrated bauxite and aluminium
industry.
These figures demonstrate how the growth of our economy is gradually relying on digital structures in bringing meaningful changes to business and society at large.
Emphasize that serving others is a privilege.
Brazil is surrounded by ten countries and the Atlantic Ocean.
Besides how much you praise your child, you also have to consider the kind of praise you offer. Which type will encourage your child? Which type might hinder him? How can you offer praise that will have the best outcome?
The court order instructed members of the Association “to comply with the procedure provided under the Labour Act for resolving their dispute with their employer.”
Attractive as these arguments are, the lived reality is one of genuine challenges to regulation and enforcement.
Consider three traps that could foster a me-first spirit in your children, and see how you can avoid those traps.
In a video that has gone viral on social media, a seemingly new ambulance, with registration number GV 537-20, is seen being loaded with bags of cement by some young men.
Furthermore, it said “Ghana as a prominent hub of mining in Africa has not fared badly in regulating the formal subsector of its industry but in recent times, a notorious trend of mine accidents and incidents with its consequential fatalities happening in some of the underground operations, particularly AngloGold Ashanti, Obuasi Mine, and its surrogate Underground Mining Alliance that has claimed three precious lives since June 2020, are becoming a blot on the enviable record chalked up by Ghana, especially after the structural adjustment programme in the 80s”.
My father isn't reading a book now.
he added the primary purpose of the training was to help participants to know the concepts and definitions of the Census, as well as their duties and responsibilities as field officers for the enumeration.
As such, he wants the AG summoned to Parliament “in accordance with Article 88 of the constitution, as the principal advisor to government, [to explain] why the President must not be held in check of being in breach of the laws of Ghana, and also provide some evidence to prove that burning of excavators is sanctioned, and I wait to see that.”
According to him, no such meeting has taken place between him and anyone on the subject matter.
“The problem we have in this country sadly is that our medical laboratory scientists don't appreciate their limitation. Two hematologists- where should they go and practice?
The Committee however cautioned Assistant Referee 2, Gifty Doku to be conversant with the Laws of the Game.
“The next line of action is for us to meet with the National Executive Council to discuss the way forward.
In a communique dated May 4, NPA revealed that “the 17 pesewas per litre increase in fuel margins previously announced by the NPA has been reduced to 9 pesewas per litre.”
My friend needs to realize that a certain amount of sharing helps people bond together and helps others understand you better. It helps them to extend to you the friendship you need. I hope my friend eventually gets better and learns to overcome her fears about friendships.
Akosuah prefers to take a shower in the morning while Abena prefers to take a bath just before going to bed.
I've been agonizing over whether to do what Kwabena suggested or do what Abena suggested.
The ideas of two people combined can lead to a solution that is better than what each one could come up with alone
In the city of Koblenz, in the badly hit western German state of Rhineland-Palatinate, police said at least 125 people were now confirmed to have died.
In the end, humility will help your child to avoid being contaminated by the self-absorbed culture of today’s world.
No one shall be held guilty of any penal offence on account of any act or omission which did not constitute a penal offence, under national or international law, at the time when it was committed.
Over 852,000 have so far received the first jab in the first phase of the vaccination exercise.
But it turned out to be a robbery.
Girls can be brutal with their words
If your daughter fails a test, perhaps that should be a wake-up call to her so that next time she will be better prepared.
“The Allied Health Professional Council regulates Allied Health Professionals, and the list is clearly stated in the schedule of Act 857 and it lists those who are allied health professionals – you must be a lab technician, you must be a medical laboratory technologist or a medical laboratory scientist.
“By necessity is meant the assertion that conduct promotes some value higher than the value of literal compliance with the law”
As soon as it’s safe in your area, plan a trip with your family, friends, or partner, and enjoy your new experiences!
He didn’t seem to understand that all jobs have some boring elements.
That may be the case if you handle most of your transactions by credit or debit card, Internet purchasing, and electronic banking.
Dating should have an honorable purpose—to help a young man and woman determine if they want to get married to each other.
He stressed that the Development Bank Ghana will be a central player for Ghana’s economic recovery and structural transformation, “especially given the importance of counter-cyclical support in stimulating private enterprise.”
Please put yourself in my place.
The Minority Leader, Haruna Iddrisu, has implored the Speaker of Parliament, Alban Bagbin, to summon the Attorney General (AG) to the House to explain the legality of the government’s approach of burning excavators and other equipment in the combat against illegal mining.
No matter how hard it is to get along with your siblings, there are at least two reasons why it’s worth the effort.
Some might even view such a friend as little more than a trophy or an accessory to be seen with in public to boost their own self-esteem.
Additionally, seven units of 10-litre-oxygen concentrators are being presented by the Government of Ghana to India’s Ministry of External Affairs, through the Ghana High Commission in New Delhi.
Strong arguments against outright destruction through burning include illegality of burning, varied approach impacting legal miners and impunity of Government.
The sea cucumber’s skin has three states—stiff, medium, and soft. To change between states, sea cucumbers link or unlink fibers in their skin. They do so by activating different stiffening or softening proteins.
The leadership of the Senior Staff Association of Universities of Ghana say they are considering intensifying their three-week-old strike to other departments under their umbrella.
Dozens of miners are reported trapped in the illegal mining pit.
Financial sustainability, identification of the poor and vulnerable, delays in reimbursing service providers due to huge volumes and values of claims, compromised quality of care, illegal charges to insured members as well as delays in the submission of claims have been identified as some of the challenges of the National Health Insurance Scheme.
“We have a regime that we are implementing for the oil sector, and we want to implement the same
regime for the mining sector. So when you take your gold out of the soil, if you take a 1000 tonnes, you
will have to pay us our share out of that. We will not wait for you to go and say you have not made any
profit out of the 1000 so you will not pay us anything. You will have to pay us something commensurate
to what you have taken out.”
At least three of the people pulled out of the wreckage have been confirmed dead, including a victim believed to be 10 years old.
If you do not have custody of your children, perhaps you can use phone calls, letters, text messages, or e-mail to maintain regular contact.
Later I looked back and realized how wrong it was to do that!
The Court, presided over by Ms Rosemond Agyiri, adjourned the matter to July 1.
If you draw a bucket out of a well too quickly, you will lose a lot of water. Similarly, if you confront your mate too forcefully, your mate may become defensive and the opportunity to draw him or her out may be lost.
Authorities have resorted to other private laboratories to meet the needs of patients who require such services.
This incident comes at a time when government has renewed the combat against all forms of illegal small-scale mining in the country.
Travel makes you more resilient
That would hardly help your daughter learn humility.
If you travel with your partner, you will quickly learn how you each communicate and how you can improve your relationship.
The investment banker who has always chased after equalisation called a friend of hers after the incident and said, “Jack, I give up, I am no more talking about equalisation, all I am talking about now is equity because as a woman entrepreneur and female leader, there will always come a time where you need to sacrifice some major transactions for family duties.”
For me, should continue and then we would ensure that the lawyer for Tyrone would enforce that and then whatever we need to ensure that their fundamental rights are protected, we will also go ahead and do that,” he added.
I got to a point where I had to balance my career and family life.
“They come to view relationships as transitory—which in a sense prepares them for divorce rather than for marriage.”
Teach your children to say “thank you,” not just with words but with genuine appreciation.
Over 8,000 teachers are being recruited to handle the sandwich classes. Under the new system, teaching hours are increased from six hours per day to eight hours per day.
This resulted in heated exchanges among the Parliamentarians, with one of South Africa’s representatives, Economic Freedom combaters’ Leader, Julius Malema, threatening to “kill” a fellow Parliamentarian
So what are you waiting for?
The second phase of Togo COVID-19 vaccination exercise has started across the country but with incidents of undue delays at various centers.
Typhoon Trami, a Category 1 storm, struck southern Japan on Sunday evening, September 30, 2018, bringing high winds and heavy rainfall.
America is a country of immigrants.
We think it is a matter that needs to be taken up at the national level.
Your children can join in the effort. A father named Poku, describes his family’s experience: “My young son wanted a new bicycle, but we explained to him why we couldn’t afford it. Instead, we gave him a bike that had belonged to his grandfather, and he enjoyed riding it very much. I learned the value of working together as a family.”
It is far better when both partners have a self-sacrificing disposition.
Following the drastic surge of Covid-19 cases in India this month, some Ghanaians, have in a kind gesture of brotherliness, provided a donation of 150 medical grade oxygen concentrators to needy hospitals in that country.
I liked going out, but she liked staying home.”
AMONG the numerous mechanisms that make human life possible is the body’s ability to heal wounds and regenerate damaged tissue.
The vaccination exercise is scheduled to take place from the 31st of May to 8th of June 2021.
A sudden illness prevented me from going to the station to meet him.
Often, a fiery argument is really about something other than the event that ignited it.
GCB to revolutionize digital banking
A wife might write, “I felt that you were treating me as if I were a child who had to check in with her father.”
My friend needs to realize that a certain amount of sharing helps people bond together and helps others understand you better. It helps them to extend to you the friendship you need. I hope my friend eventually gets better and learns to overcome her fears about friendships.
It’s a lot more, from Software to Hardware and in fact, when we talk about anything ICT or any solution in that regard, I realized that Huawei is the way to go, and bingo they have it all” he added.
According to him, it wasn’t just the NPP executive’s company that had been affected by the work of the task force.
“I wish to put on record that I have never met this unnamed, unidentified woman or the elders and the chiefs she claims she brought to meet with me.
Would you mind if I open the window?
So, for example, if your child wants something you cannot afford, explain why it is necessary to live within a budget.
Subsequently, GPRTU said they were in discussions with the government about the increase in transport fares but urged Ghanaians to expect a 10 to 15 per cent increase
Expect your child to do chores.
President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has allayed fears that, the double in track system will destroy the education system as being speculated by a cross section of the Public.
Travel makes you more resilient
So the answer to all three questions is yes.
Mr. Mahama’s appointment as the AU envoy was welcomed by the Council of Presidential Candidates of Somalia, and the Coalition of Somalia’s Federal Member States.
As you and your mate start your life together, various problems will arise.
Raising Considerate Children in a Me-First World
While humans mainly use sight to investigate their surroundings, dogs use their sense of smell.
Discuss with him what he can do to help them. Commend and support your child as he serves others.
Since childhood, you may have learned to respect people who have more authority or experience than you have. In marriage, however, the challenge is to show respect for someone with whom you are on more of an equal footing​—your mate.
The leadership of Komfo Anokye is not ready to give in to the request of the scientists over there, and it is still imposing the medical officers on the professionals.
Don't let this opportunity pass you by.
Later, when you meet the right person, you’ll be in a better position to build a solid relationship.
One of the robbers manned the entrance, as the other demanded money after shooting thrice into the roof of the building, said one of the workers.
I invite you to see and appreciate that many of the problems that plague our country have something to do with the mal-functioning of the law.
The victim was rushed to the Manhyia Hospital for treatment but was pronounced dead on arrival.
This isn't mine.
Melody Owusu was rushed to St Peters Catholic Hospital in Kpando for medical attention.
I chanced upon this watch at the station.
A starving person will eat almost anything.
For a month, keep track of your eating habits. How often do you go to one of the extremes described above? What adjustments can you make to have a balanced diet?
By the time you will come in the next morning, you will realize that almost all of your goods are gone.
Prior to the second wave of COVID-19, Ghana had become one of the first recipients of the Indian manufactured COVID-19 vaccines under WHO’s Covax program.
If something similar is happening in your home, do not hastily conclude that your child is becoming an irreformable rebel.
You can’t always blame others for your loneliness. Sometimes you are the one who has separated yourself. So do what you can to include yourself again. If that doesn’t work, try making new friends​—perhaps with some you haven’t tried to make friends with before
They would also be taught how to enumerate a household population, institutional population and floating population using the CAPI system.
Unhealthy youths often become unhealthy adults, so it’s good for you to develop healthy eating habits now.
A grateful spirit has been called a building block of humility.
Kwesi is having a hard time deciding what to wear to the party.
If something takes effort,’ she reasons, ‘I must not be cut out for it​—so why try?
In the midst of COVID-19, under Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, these students courageously sat for the exam and obtained a score of 66.05%.
Some even use videoconferencing. You may gain more insight into your children—and provide a more positive influence—than you may think is even possible.
They need to learn, practice, and refine chosen skills carefully.
“As many more lawyers are trained, it is my hope that, indeed, many more of them will join the public sector to enhance the quality of legal service delivery in the sector.
The suspect, who has not commented on the allegations, is set to appear in court on charges of obtaining money by false pretences.
I hear a gentleman was picked up some few days ago at Jubilee House; one Damoah.
Tickets are valid for just two days, including the day they are purchased on.
Mr. Haruna Iddrisu was speaking on the floor of Parliament following the resumption of its second meeting of the first session of the 8th Parliament of the Fourth Republic.
They could even become easy targets for manipulators, thinking that such relationships are normal and that they shouldn’t expect anything better.
The Headmistress of Seventh Day Adventist (SDA) Senior High School in Koforidua -Asokore in the Eastern Region is being investigated by the National Intelligent Bureau (NIB) for administrative infractions.
They also need to care about other people’s needs.
Oil firms, Eni and Vitol say they do not oppose unitization but rather working with the Ministry of Energy, the Petroleum Commission and the Ghana National Petroleum Corporation to find a mutually acceptable solution to enable Ghana capitalize on the Afina discovery.
…I invite you to see and appreciate that many of the problems that plague our country have something to do with the mal-functioning of the law.
The tone in which a discussion begins is often the tone in which it ends.
We also tend to remember the good parts of our travels and forget the stressful parts in the long term, so travel makes us feel warm and fuzzy inside.
Those in charge of the exercise haven’t done well,” an elderly man who got his second jab at the Legon Hospital told Citi News.
I wasn't even in Boston the night Yaw was murdered.
All of this enables a dog to differentiate between the components of a complex scent.
The bank’s strategy going forward hinges on three pillars.
“When completed, these facilities will help to decongest the high number of pupils in the classrooms, promote reading culture among pupils and also provide comfort for teachers who sit under trees to mark scripts,” he added.
Although money is important, do not allow it to disrupt your marriage or cause unnecessary anxiety.
Why haven't you told Asamoah that he owes 300 dollars?
Thus parents buy them stuff. And children are excited, but only for a short period of time. Then they want even more stuff.
It is far better when both partners have a self-sacrificing disposition.
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo released the list of deputy ministers on April 21, 2021
Lastly the Match review panel exonerated the match officials from taking any wrongful decisions in the WPL game between Hasaacas and Soccer Intellectuals.
When you upset your wife by the way you exercise or fail to exercise your headship, ask her how you can improve, and then write the suggestion down.
The prosecutor said the father questioned her about why she was crying, and she disclosed that Yeboah called her to come for money to buy biscuits, revealing that “when she followed him to his room, Yeboah put her on his bed and inserted his penis into her vagina”.
Even if you need to lose weight, remember that your goal is to be healthy.
Peace News‘ checks at some centers revealed that although many people turned up very early in the morning, as early as 4:00 am, they had not been served as at 10:00am.
A life was lost on May 17, 2021 after an underground mining pit which is part of the concession of Anglogold Ashanti Obuasi Mine, caved in and trapped some workers.
At least three of the people pulled out of the wreckage have been confirmed dead, including a victim believed to be 10 years old.
The NLC had earlier ordered the lab scientists to immediately call off the strike and return to the negotiation table.
Disrespect creates tension in the home and leads to bitter conflict.
Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution.
How can you reduce the impact of the “everyday troubles that married people will have”?
The young person with bloated self-esteem, unaware of her own deficiencies, is unlikely to do well in the job interview,
Humility benefits relationships
It could also be that you and your partner have different approaches to money. For example, one might be more inclined to spend while the other is more inclined to save.
She went on to mention how the Huawei ICT Academy creates an easy pathway for students to enter the job market.
The Chief of Tinjase, Ubor Mamunin II, lauded Mr. Bless for initiating the school projects.
The GAF has said its officers, deployed to curb illegal mining on water bodies and in forest reserves, will not hesitate to destroy all equipment chanced upon at illegal mining sites.
“What they did not know is that we are not touching the licenses. It is the illegalities we are touching.
No matter how hard he may work, he will not be able to pass the exams.
Brazil is surrounded by ten countries and the Atlantic Ocean.
The Committee also handed Referee Selorm Kpormegbe a six-match suspension for his inability to whistle when an attacker was recklessly fouled in the Ghana Premier League match between Karela FC and Bechem United FC.
Do my children see that I value serving others?
For example, when we watched TV, I liked sports, but she liked dramas.
I never expected to meet her in a place like this.
If you bottle up your anger, the problem will keep recurring and you’ll eventually explode.
At least 133 people died in Germany due to the heavy floods across its western states.
I wish you had told me the truth.
Please don't make so much noise. I'm trying to study.
No one shall be held guilty of any penal offence on account of any act or omission which did not constitute a penal offence, under national or international law, at the time when it was committed.
The Chief Executive Officer of NIMED Capital Limited, Abena BuachiwaaBrigidi, has encouraged women that they can have both a career and a stable family at the same time.
The Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941.
Speaking at the launch of the Mime Africa Awards, Akofa Edjeani explained that the only reason why the movie industry is lagging behind is because of a lack of investors.
Whiskers also help cats to measure the width of an opening before they attempt to go through it.
How much time do you spend cleaning your house?
Instead, pinpoint where they agree. To help you find common ground, try this
She urged the management of the hospital to take good care of the facility to enable it to serve the purpose for which it was provided.
President Nana Akufo-Addo has already pledged the services of Ghanaian doctors and nurses to India should they be needed at any time.
She made me a cake.
Strong arguments against outright destruction through burning include illegality of burning, indiscriminate approach impacting legal miners and impunity of Government. Moreover, burning equipment is an expensive waste and has failed before and that rather, equipment should be seized, processed through court and used for other productive purposes by needy state institutions. Also, using the military as the primary enforcement agent is wrong. It should be police.
In a country where three-out-of-four people are poor, almost two-thirds of households reported a decline in income since the beginning of the pandemic.
Our items are very affordable.
Emphasize that serving others is a privilege.
Wait until your partner has finished talking and you understand what was expressed.
An oxygen concentrator is a device that directs the oxygen from a gas supply by selectively removing nitrogen to supply an oxygen-enriched gas stream.
Travel makes you more resilient
Interchanges cost $10,000000 – $55000000 per kilometer and reconstruction asphalt costs $1,200,000-1,400,000.”
He is a known advocate of media rights, representing journalists in court, helping repeal criminal libel, passing Right to Information legislation and speaking to the Press regularly. He has overseen an explosion in social media-attracting both Google and Twitter. Nana Addo does not have the right, authority, capacity or inclination to stop the media from doing its legitimate work. All he wants is mutual responsibility and accountability for our actions. He will not shy away from that. The media ought not to appear to be a den of impunity. Indeed, no institution of state ought to be above lawful enquiry, as Rule of Law demands.
Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks.
News Editor for the Daily Graphic, Mr. Samuel Ablordepey, who was also present at the event was amazed by Huawei’s huge portfolio of innovative solutions and recounted his experience at the 2019 Huawei Connect event in China as an eye-opener.
He took notice that, during the different phases of ‘Operation Halt’, some miners were chanced upon to be carrying out their activities at night.
The Headmistress Mrs Naomi Abena Nyarkoa Yeboah Abasi has been accused of collecting feeding fees from students at her private hostel but feeds them with meals meant for boarding students.
In an interview on Eye witness News on Wednesday, the Head of Public Relations at the National Ambulance Service. Simmons Yussifkewura, indicated that the ambulance in question belonged to the Sege Constituency and was procured under the ‘One Constituency One Ambulance’ Initiative.
We had less snow this winter than we had expected.
The Ashanti Regional branch of Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GAMLS), and others in some regions, have also declared an indefinite strike in solidarity with their colleagues at KATH
Some expatriates of other countries in Ghana also participated in the noble cause.
Many husbands and wives were raised in homes where hurtful speech was common.
he added elections will be conducted in such a way that what people will choose will at the end of the day become those who will lead the country at the district, parliamentary and Presidential levels.
Kofi Eshun has flatly denied claims by an unnamed woman in an audio that has gone viral, that he held a meeting with her and others in a bid to sell the Gimpa, a public property.
HOW TO TEACH HUMILITY
He thus described it as an “embarrassing stain” on the country’s judicial and electoral systems as well as a major source of worry to well-meaning Ghanaians.
Division One side Tema Youth thrashed Inter Allies beating the Premier League side 5-1.
The entire Law Village Project, according to the President, will cost about US$55 million.
He has quickly accepted the verdict of Ghana to work together and is doing so.
So at first, I ruled my family as if I were a monarch.
Chelsea midfielder Willian has committed his future to the club, saying he has always been "very excited" at Stamford Bridge.
he added such projects have given Tinjase town and surrounding communities a facelift.
This arrangement protects the nerve fibers in the jaw while providing sensitivity that in some spots is greater than instruments could measure.
I visited Boston.
The co-tenants described Mr Gorman as a very friendly and cordial person. Thus, were surprised by the incident.
Gold Ghana Mining company under whose concession Kate Gyamfua was mining in her capacity as General Manager, has maintained that it is not operating illegally, that, it has all valid documents to mine.
No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms
In Hampshire, the roofs of two semi-detached properties were severely damaged when they were struck by lightning on Saturday morning.
According to him, the application of larvicide is crucial in combating the development state of the vector.
With more complex issues, however, a husband and wife can strengthen their bond by brainstorming a solution that perhaps neither of them would have come up with alone.
With our goodwill, The Office of the Special Prosecutor (OSP) will perhaps be the most enduring legacy of President Akufo-Addo, rivalling the mass spread of literacy that the educational reforms will bring.
Mr. Haruna Iddrisu was speaking on the floor of Parliament following the resumption of its second meeting of the first session of the 8th Parliament of the Fourth Republic.
The families will receive seeds and basic agricultural tools and be trained in successful growing methods
Deputy Chairman of the Electoral Commission, Dr. Pinkrah has assured Ghanaians that it will deliver very fair elections at all levels.
According to him, the lack of responsiveness of banks, when it comes to reacting to changes in the policy rate, leaves much to be wished for
My sister works at the United States Embassy in London.
He knows this city very well.
We do not oppose unitization; we working with government, partners – Eni, Vitol
Many politicians fail to keep their promises.
The training, which took place in Kumasi, was organised by Zoomlion Ghana Limited (ZGL) in partnership with the Ghana Health Service (GHS) under its National Malaria Control Programme (NAMCOP) and Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research (NMIMR).
Veteran Ghanaian actress, Akofa Edjeani, says it is about time Ghanaians and Africa as a whole start telling their own stories through movies.
Islam first reached China about the middle of the 7th century.
The leadership of the Association, on Tuesday, met a delegation from the Ministry of Employment and Labour Relations to look into their demands for the payment of their outstanding Tier-2 pension contributions and improved conditions of service but that meeting ended inconclusively.
President Akufo-Addo on behalf of the government of Ghana and Ghanaians sympathized with Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari and the rest of the population over Lt. Gen. Attahiru’s death and that of seven other officials.
Isn't it about time you guys buried the hatchet and let bygones be bygones?
From the direction that he was going in, I would say he was headed to town.
The gathering was told that distance courses have been started for candidates in remote districts who hardly get opportunity to upgrade themselves and that the initiative is aimed at widening the university’s coverage to allow teachers and other workers in “distant communities” to obtain qualifications that are relevant to their career objectives.
So, for example, if your child wants something you cannot afford, explain why it is necessary to live within a budget.
In principle we are not opposed to unitization, but this needs to follow an appropriate, shared work programme and evaluation process to assess the elements listed above before taking decisions in the interest of all parties.
The Vice Chancellor expressed the sentiments in a speech read for him by the Principal of the Wa Campus of UDS, Prof. Sylvester Z. Galaa at the matriculation of graduate students pursuing sandwich programs in Wa.
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property.
They took notice that because of his condition he was brought to his father to be taken to the hospital.
I still don't understand what you want from me.
She had borrowed the money to pay for her children’s medical treatment
You assume that there is a hidden message behind your partner’s words, when in fact you may be reading too much into the situation.
So the answer to all three questions is yes.
Laboratory Scientists at KATH began a one-week sit-down strike last week to protest the posting of two medical officers to the Laboratory Services Directorate of the hospital.
The Vice Chancellor of the University for Development Studies (UDS), Prof Gabriel Ayum Teye says “the reports reaching his office indicate that some supervisors hardly give quality guidance to the students assigned to them and this does not help in the production of quality thesis.”
According to him, the application of larvicide is crucial in combating the development state of the vector. He added that “it will enable us to reduce the population of mosquitoes.”
Instead, simply relate how your partner’s actions affected you.
Certain fats—in the right amount—can lower your risk of heart disease and keep you feeling your best.
Also, I don’t think it’s wrong occasionally to have a candy bar or eat fast food. But that should not be all a person’s diet consists of.
What is the purpose of dating?
People here like to send people on errands.
I'd rather not go out today.
Despite existing infrastructural deficit, government has made it a point to allow all qualified students to make it to Senior High school.
According to him, it wasn’t just the NPP executive’s company that had been affected by the work of the task force.
Chelsea midfielder Willian has committed his future to the club, saying he has always been "very excited" at Stamford Bridge.
Mr Polley said the training would adopt a participant-centred approach, which involved lectures, video presentations, face-to-face interactions, mock interviews, assessment and field practice.
Dr. Adjei explained that LSM was basically to control the vector that carries the malaria parasite.
I told you it was dangerous. The reason you got hurt was because you didn't listen.
Anger has also been linked to insomnia, increased anxiety, skin problems, and stroke.
Phase One of the project complementing the facilities of the Accra Main Campus located at Makola, at a cost of US$4 million).
Instead, simply try to build mutual understanding between the two of you.
The facility, which provides sitting space for 150 people also has restrooms and a place for banking services
And that is why it is necessary to burn stray equipment once and for all to deter repetitive destructive behaviour. The state is enforcing through burning because it must necessarily do so if it is to turn the tide in the short term whilst strengthening traditional regulatory measures in the medium to long term. As has often been repeated by H.E the President, he does not intend to stop the age old business of artisanal mining but its highly destructive modern version must necessarily be stopped with all the authority and force the state commands.
Following the drastic surge of Covid-19 cases in India this month, some Ghanaians, have in a kind gesture of brotherliness, provided a donation of 150 medical grade oxygen concentrators to needy hospitals in that country.
If your daughter scores well on a school test, commend her. If she gets a low grade, do not automatically blame the teacher.
Others are convinced that they are special and deserve to be treated that way—and then they become dejected when they realize that the world does not share their view.
Our server will be offline on October 20th for scheduled maintenance.
“She does not state the date of the said meeting, the place where the meeting took place, and the names of the elders and chiefs who accompanied her to the alleged meeting.
A respectful person values others and seeks to understand their feelings.
This is going to be transformational,” the Vice President stated.
He likes to read newspapers.
If you look beyond our numbers, if you look at the performance of 2020 and you look beyond the financials, you will see the contribution we have made to this nation through socio economic development- and we see ourselves as a catalyst to that.”
According to the contractors, getting paid for jobs done has become a difficult banter between them and the government leading to the death of some contractors.
he added, “if we don’t make reasoning prevail in this issue, we will not have a justification for our trip paid by our member countries to come here and engage with these exchanges, it will not help us.
Just the act of planning a trip together with your partner can bring you closer than you were before – and make you excited.
This is because of the embarrassment and pain they go through during this period”.
The baby was rushed to hospital and chanced upon to be unharmed.
Following the drastic surge of Covid-19 cases in India this month, some Ghanaians, have in a kind gesture of brotherliness, provided a donation of 150 medical grade oxygen concentrators to needy hospitals in that country.
Why is everything going wrong?
We thought they were about to combat.
The analysts are of the view that such measures when applied should be followed to the letter to ensure compliance.
Children must never be made to feel bad about themselves—or so parents were told.
I have a lot of Canadian friends.
One researcher admits that this synthetic healing process currently under development is “reminiscent” of what already exists in nature.
ASP Godwin Ahianyo also disclosed that four suspected notorious armed robbers in the region have been picked up and remanded into police custody
We can't find a good sewing machine anywhere.
“The Allied Health Professional Council regulates Allied Health Professionals, and the list is clearly stated in the schedule of Act 857 and it lists those who are allied health professionals – you must be a lab technician, you must be a medical laboratory technologist or a medical laboratory scientist.
Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association.
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality nor denied the right to change his nationality.
They buried him in the graveyard by the church.
“I was here around 5.30am. It is almost 12:00pm, and I have just got vaccinated. Those of us who came here were asked to write our names and form the queue so that we will be served in that order. Shortly after they begun, we realized that the list had been replaced with another one that had other people. This angered many of us, and it generated a lot of confusion. Those in charge of the exercise haven’t done well,” an elderly man who got his second jab at the Legon Hospital told Citi News.
“Investigation so far has revealed that the above-named suspects perpetrated that crime.”
There was so much I had to do, and I had also booked an important appointment that I really had to be present for.
The Minister said it is unfortunate for Prof. Opoku-Agyemang to make suggestions that demoralize the students and by extension denigrate the exams body – the West African Examination Council (WAEC), which conducted the exams across the sub-region.
The interest in Willian came after his relationship with previous Chelsea head coach Antonio Conte broke down.
Mr. Amar Deep S. Hari, the Chief Executive Officer of IPMC, who commissioned the items, on a virtual platform for distribution from India’s famous mosque, Dargah Nizamuddin in New Delhi, India, expressed his gratitude to Ghanaians for this assistance.
He added that “it will enable us to reduce the population of mosquitoes.”
When we travel, we can easily forget about our stressors and recharge.
They put a coat of paint on the chair.
It is essential that you plan together how you will use your money.
He promised to visit the ancient town as soon as possible to strengthen the relationship.
Put yourself in your partner’s position, and try to understand how your words make him or her feel.
“You can have a license but if you were destroying the water bodies, the soldiers were supposed to make sure that they take out the equipment that you were using.
According to him, it “seeks to truncate the execution of the court’s order.”
Would you please stop pacing around like that and just sit down for a second?
What did Naana Jane say?
Ethiopians will starve unless more convoys are allowed, & much faster.
He took notice that, during the different phases of ‘Operation Halt’, some miners were chanced upon to be carrying out their activities at night.
Do research or consult your doctor to learn about the benefits of the various substances chanced upon in foods.
Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust, non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty.
Marriage shall be entered into only with the free and full consent of the intending partners.
Dr. Samuel Thomas, an India physician, from a community hospital of Tamil Nadu State, expressed his gratitude to Ghanaians for the timely donation, which according to him, would go a long way in treating critically ill patients.
An unknown woman in an audio circulating on social media claims to have picked some information that the President had plans to sell the Art Centre.
"This is a new era, with a new manager and I've had a very good conversation with him, so I hope we can enjoy a lot of victories."
As soon as it’s safe in your area, plan a trip with your family, friends, or partner, and enjoy your new experiences!
The fire brigade said it had taken about 300 calls - mostly about flooded basements or roads - in the space of a few hours on Sunday.
It recognizes organizations and individuals demonstrating notable originality, creativity, and innovation within the industry.
The second phase of Ghana’s COVID-19 vaccination exercise has started across the country but with incidents of undue delays at various centers.
For example, suppose your partner says: “You’ve spent a lot of extra time at work this week.”
However, he says he has was speakingn to Conte's replacement, Maurizio Sarri, and reassured him he wants to be part of his plans this season.
Sell nonessential vehicles, and maintain what you have instead of quickly trading in for newer models
Wait until your partner has finished talking and you understand what was expressed.
Unhealthy youths often become unhealthy adults, so it’s good for you to develop healthy eating habits now.
Doing so is a primary way to develop maturity.
Call me up whenever you need my help.
Prior to the second wave of COVID-19, Ghana had become one of the first recipients of the Indian manufactured COVID-19 vaccines under WHO’s Covax program.
But serious errors should be corrected.
“The suspects are Abdul Adams 37, Ibrahim Adamu 39, Aseidu Ona (Al’as L.ion) 33 and Mohammed Abubakar 33.
Can you get me that Waakye from Nhyiaeso?
I’m beginning to be convinced there is some kind of cartel arrangement between the banks because this shouldn’t be happening in a competitive environment.”
You feel lonesome, don't you?
Arguments tend to escalate as they continue.
He took notice efforts at addressing the crime situation in the area have been unsuccessful.
Over and above that, I think we need to reposition ourselves [GCB Bank} as to how we select some government initiatives and see how we implement them, how we support government to implement some of their initiatives; around manufacturing, value addition, exports driven market.
But these techniques can backfire.
Indeed, his tolerance for political debate was on show in the nearly two years of NDC protests against the EC and then he quietly set a great record by supporting the entire election budget from Government resources.
I like that dress better than this one.
You owe me one.
I will definitely go to your funeral.
The Commission is also hiring additional mining engineers to strengthen compliance with the health and safety rules of mining activities.
The President continued, “with the 2021/2022 academic year fast approaching, the school is, again, faced with limited and overstretched facilities, hence the added importance of this project”.
The President of the Republic said I felt like weeping.
She might conclude that she has lost her knack, so why try to improve?
Speaking to Citi News, the National President of the group, Zakariah Mohammed, says the government has failed to adequately address their concerns.
This new thinking, the Vice President emphasised, was the guiding principle behind the decision to
leverage a fraction of Ghana’s vast bauxite deposits to build an integrated bauxite and aluminium
industry.
Mr. Mahama also took a swipe at the Supreme Court saying it has set a “dangerous precedence” by not allowing the Chairperson of the Electoral Commission to testify during the trial.
Toru did whatever his family asked, but he did not consult with me. I asked him, ‘Who is more important to you, your mother or me?
At the moment we are partnering another NGO called ‘ Couldyou? to provide Menstrual caps; a small cup inserted in the woman to collect blood.
Praise specific actions.
The chief enumerated a number of infrastructure projects the MP carried out in the area, including rural electrification, mechanized boreholes, CHPS compounds, school buildings, and a communication tower.
Allocate funds each month for separate expenses (food, rent, fuel, and so forth). Some do this by putting cash in envelopes, one for each expense category.
Suddenly, the door opened and her father entered.
Mr. Asante Bediatuo further insisted the added audio was created to cause disaffection for him as a senior government official.
At was at this press conference that Kwesi Amoako-Atta announced that 6,000 kilometres of roads out of the over 11,000 kilometres of programmed roads will be completed in President Akufo-Addo’s second term.
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, on Wednesday, 26th May, 2021, cut the sod for the first phase of construction works to start on the Law Village of the Ghana Law School.
According to the Commission, preliminary investigations indicate that the small-scale miners were working illegally at the site which falls within the prospecting license of Adio-Mabas Ghana Limited.
“I have been reliably informed that 1,000 students were admitted during the 2020/2021 academic year.
As soon as I can figure out how to send money, I'll send you some.
Everybody in the car said they wanted to get out and stretch their legs.
The incident happened between Jefisi and Bulu at about 7:50 pm when the MP was returning from a funeral he attended at Jefisi.
Financial analysts on GBC's Current Affairs Programme ‘Talking point’ have urged the Central Bank to put in place strict directives and measures to prevent recurrence of liquidation in the financial sector.
Even some parents may unwittingly sow the seeds of a me-first spirit.
The bird picked up the twig with its beak and flew to its nest.
To save this nation,Government is being compelled to resort to radical measures, including burning equipment chanced upon near river bodies and in forest reserves.
Yet, this is the President who has opened up the most space in the political governance arena.
The President was expectant that the completion of the Law Village will expand access to legal education, without compromising on its quality, and, ultimately, assist in the administration of justice throughout the country.
The Headmistress furnished her private hostel with students beds meant for the school.
Additionally, some employees are being trained in critical areas such as mineral economics, metal finance, ventilation, and geotechnical engineering to improve their skills and knowledge.
Do not wait until a problem arises before you talk about money.
Phase One of the project complementing the facilities of the Accra Main Campus located at Makola, at a cost of US$4 million).
He hung a lamp from the ceiling.
As a trade union organization that has for 75 years sought the protection and welfare of workers in the industry, it said it takes an uncompromising opposition to these worrying and preventable fatalities that are shedding the blood of innocent workers in atonement for the profiteering motives of these multinational corporations.
This represents an increase of about 4 percent, and brings Ghana’s total public debt as of the end of March 2021 to GHS 304.6 billion.
Unlimited texting is no guarantee that you will never be lonely
Everyone charged with a penal offence has the right to be presumed innocent until proved guilty according to law in a public trial at which he has had all the guarantees necessary for his defence.
This marks a decline from the first week of May when the country was reporting more than 300,000 cases daily. It has also reported 3,511 fatalities, on Tuesday, the lowest single-day death toll since May 4,2021.
What is happening these days is a vibrant call for immediate solidarity, but also for a long-term commitment to a different ecological ethic, with respect for creation.”
During Starr News investigation into the matter, it came to light that, the National Intelligence Bureau (NIB) was also investigating same and had with immediate effect stopped the Headmistress from feeding the students from the school.
It has to do with judicial corruption, which, a priori, constitutes a violation of the judicial oath.
The MP cut the sod last Saturday, May 23, for work to begin on the GH¢800,000 projects.
Meanwhile, parents might worry that criticizing their children will push them away.
Kwabena ate what he wanted.
he added the media must play a role in reminding Ghanaians about the devasting impact the pandemic has had on the world economy and the need to work with the government in finding solutions.
Its tenets seemed plausible: If a little praise is good for kids, a lot of praise is better.
We should sing together again sometime.
We all knew Bernard was in trouble, but none of us did anything to help.
British Airways has reverted to Heathrow Airport for its Accra London-Accra flights, for now.
The Roads Minister made the disclosure at government’s press briefing in Accra on Sunday May 23, 2021.
It appears a very critical technological intervention, an integrated ICT System which was unveiled by the Microfinance and Small Loans Centre (MASLOC) exactly a year ago has not seen the light of day.
Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at least in the elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education shall be compulsory. Technical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit.
Citi News‘ checks at some centers revealed that although many people turned up very early in the morning, as early as 4:00 am, they had not been served as at 10:00am.
But government will revolve these challenges and will not back down on the policy. He called for support from the Public as the new policy is rolled out.
As a parent, examine your own attitude toward money and the things it can buy.
As a judicial officer of well over forty years standing, H.E the President is keenly aware of our capacities and what must be done to bring us up to speed. This is what he added in September 2018 to the Ghana Bar Association gathered in conference;
He then gives his wife the silent treatment, shunning her in the hope that she will break down and concede to his wishes.
Write down one or two areas in which you could extend a little more freedom to your adolescent. Explain to him that you are extending this freedom on a trial basis.
By giving such correction in the spirit of love, you will teach him humility without hurting his self-respect.​
I called Asamoah today.
Where I come from, people tend to be tactless. My blunt way of expressing myself often upset my wife. I had to learn to be more gentle.
One of my dreams is to one day see the aurora borealis.
A good listener listens not only with the ears but also with the heart.
During a conflict, partners with such attitudes may view each other as adversaries rather than allies and use words that hurt rather than heal.
“We see this cashless society in its infancy in developing countries, and we are most likely to copy that
Later in April, one Prince Charles Dedjoe, a businessman, suspected of killing his wife was also picked up by the police.
I'll wait for you to finish.
They took notice that because of his condition he was brought to his father to be taken to the hospital.
You should pay your rent in advance.
Of course, a temporary time-out can give a couple the opportunity to let emotions cool when an argument is getting out of hand.
If you are a parent, how can you help your children to reap the benefits of being kind and to avoid being contaminated by the self-absorbed culture that surrounds them?
The analysts are of the view that such measures when applied should be followed to the letter to ensure compliance.
A staff of the company, Collins Dapaah, who sustained severe injuries from gunkilleds during the incident, has died.
Kwabena doesn't want his picture taken.
If you was speaking less and listened more, you'd definitely be able to learn something.
Your partner has something important to say, but are you ready to listen? Perhaps not.
Our feelings are usually preceded by our thoughts, and we can take control of our thoughts.
Do research or consult your doctor to learn about the benefits of the various substances chanced upon in foods.
Dating is no trivial matter.
A friend of mine is struggling with chronic loneliness.
Hematologists are doctors who have trained in blood diseases.
The girl got distracted and lost sight of her parents.
According to him, in all his public service, he has always put the interest of Ghana first in every decision he has taken.
We also tend to remember the good parts of our travels and forget the stressful parts in the long term, so travel makes us feel warm and fuzzy inside.
What language do they speak in Switzerland?
The company believes the new intervention will serve as an avenue to make the lives of both business owners and customers much more easier.
Many young adults have devoured the message and are now in debt, unable to pay for the things they “deserve.”
Effective Saturday, June 5, road transport fares will be increased by 13%.
THE crocodile has the most powerful bite ever measured for animals that are now living.
The possibility that the explosion was caused by carelessness cannot be ruled out.
He later called for the setting up of an interim leadership committee to steer the affairs of the continental body while preparations are made for the general elections.
Each of you make a two-column list. In the first column, write down which aspects of the issue you feel most strongly about. In the second column, list the aspects on which you feel that you could compromise.
This is happening few months after a 53-year-old man was killed and killed in the same community during a disagreement over palm wine.
Now your partner starts talking to you—something about expecting visitors tonight.
No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms
The Deputy Director of Public Health (DDPH) in the Ashanti Region, Dr. Michael Rockson Adjei, has emphasized that Larval Source Management (LSM), is a crucial malaria control intervention.
The Speaker of Parliament, Alban S.K Bagbin, has assured the Ghanaian business community that Parliament remains committed to extensively engaging them on proposed amendments to laws that stifle the growth of local businesses.
President Akufo-Addo acknowledged that the implementation of any new policy is likely to face challenges.
I think it is a journey, I don’t think we are there yet, but I think we are on the right track.”
You might have acquired valuable social skills when you were single, and they might have improved while you were dating.
Industry leaders from academia and ICT ecosystem have praised Huawei’s ICTN Academy and other talent cultivation initiatives of Huawei as a step in the right direction and critical for equipping the youth to be professionals whiles remaining globally.
Visiting new places can be very exciting, but it can also be a bit intimidating, which takes you out of your comfort zone and forces you to try new things.
When a dog sniffs, air is directed to the part of the nasal cavity that contains scent receptors.
The donation will be shared among 30 health facilities in rural areas across 14 different states/regions.
I got to a point where I had to balance my career and family life.
The Commission is also hiring additional mining engineers to strengthen compliance with the health and safety rules of mining activities.
He however indicated that his personnel will adjust their operations to apprehend the miners.
“We will be law-abiding and do nothing to compromise the stability of the country.
We want partnerships and that is why we want a new regime in the mining sector, so that everyone will pay their share.”
In this piece, correspondent Emmanuel Mensah-Abludo says the students at the Wa campus are pursuing their courses at the Faculty of Integrated Development Studies, School of Business and Law as well as the Faculty of Planning and Land Management.
The pathologist believes it is problematic for the Allied Health Professional Council to say or regulate the functions of physicians and where they should operate from as it was seeking to do with the two hematologists.
WAEC has an algorithm to detect students who have cheated and catch them every year.
If you have extra money at the end of the month, decide together what you are going to do with it
Examine the wording of the loan or bill carefully, since creditors may be deceptive
Days of extreme heat last week have given way to cooler temperatures and unsettled, stormy weather in places.
The effects of these acts of lawlessness have been, invariably, the loss, and threat of loss, of innocent depositors’ savings and jobs.
At least three of the people pulled out of the wreckage have been confirmed dead, including a victim believed to be 10 years old.
He told his mother that he would study the next day.
Tensions were high during the fourth ordinary session of the Fifth Parliament of the Pan African Parliament held in Johannesburg, South Africa to find a replacement for the incumbent President, Cameroonian Roger Nkodo Dang.
Ken Ofori-Atta and Charles Adu Boahen benefited from that money through the fees they get for their company.
They sounded the alarm when they saw the enemy approaching.
Kwabena ate what he wanted.
Government had also assured as by a letter from the Ministry of Finance that the suspension of the quarterly income tax paid by owners of trotros and taxis will be extended to cover intercity commuter vehicles to reduce the operational cost.
Melody Owusu was rushed to Margret Marquart Catholic Hospital in Kpando for medical attention.
he added such projects have given Tinjase town and surrounding communities a facelift.
This is our main goal.
The Authority was awarded for its outstanding commitment to using technology to support remote learning to promoting information skills, literacy and reading.
Since we got here, nobody has been attended to. Nobody is talking to us.
ARE you raising an adolescent? If so, you are witnessing one of the most fascinating stages of your child’s growth.
Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each state.
In the Central region, a headmaster at Cape Coast was killed in front of his house on Saturday evening while returning from a meeting.
In the meantime, we want them to suspend the strike,” he stated.
I had no other way of contacting you, so I came here in person.
The father, according to the prosecution, asked his wife to check what was wrong with the victim, and she confirmed that her daughter was bleeding and also smelled of Robb ointment in her private parts.
It may seem like a crazy idea, but I think we should go visit Kwabena and Abena right now.
Greet the person by name. For example, say, “Hello, Jane.
Some parents dole out undeserved praise in an attempt to boost their children’s self-esteem.
A student raised his hand when the teacher finished the reading.
According to him, those allegations are “outright and blatant lies.”
The Appointments Committee has, consequently, invited Memoranda on the nominees from the public
for consideration.
She showed her guests how to eat what she had prepared.
One apparent restraint to our progress, what we may term the missing link in our governance system, which hampers the rapid economic development we seek, is the deficit in the application of the rule of law.
The ceremony took place at the Academic Enclave near the University of Ghana Business School.
My sister works at the United States Embassy in London.
However, he says he has was speakingn to Conte's replacement, Mr Maurizio Sarri, and reassured him he wants to be part of his plans this season.
“We have political contractors in our midst.
If my son is not responsible enough to keep his room clean, how will he maintain an apartment?”
Everyone gets lonely at times; it’s just a matter of degree. And while loneliness can be a devastating feeling, in the end it’s just that​—a feeling.
She further advised movie producers to copyright their works at National Film Authority to avoid infringements that will go a long way to affect them.
I wonder if he can live on such a small salary.
Reacting to that, Dominic Nitiwul took notice that these military officials are fully briefed and complying with the rules of engagement laid down by the incumbent government, thus, any item confiscated or destroyed is recorded and made known to the general public.
‘What has got into him?’ you wonder. ‘I want him to feel good about himself​—but not to think that he is better than everyone else!’
What has led to the delay in the MASLOC ICT Project?
President Akufo-Addo acknowledged that the implementation of any new policy is likely to face challenges.
After studying them, researcher Duncan Leitch noted: “Each of the nerve endings comes out of a hole in the skull.
Scientists are developing materials that mimic the adaptability of sea-cucumber skin.
Four of my favorite Christmas carols are "Silent Night," "Joy to the World," "The First Noel" and "Away in the Manger."
Often, social media is linked with self-promotion​—broadcasting a person’s talents and accomplishments—​the very opposite of humility.
In his address to some personnel during his visit to some illegal mining sites, the Chief of Defence Staff took notice that the illegal miners now mine at night under the protection of heavily armed men.
Akwesi Yeboah pleaded not guilty to the charge of defilement, but was chanced upon guilty by the Accra Circuit Court, presided over by Ms. Christiana Cann, after a full trial.
But he added that President Akufo-Addo immediately directed him to, as a matter of urgency, ensure the road is constructed.
This timely intervention by MASLOC was a brilliant concept meant to support the operations of MASLOC by processing loan disbursement digitally, increase access to their products and services, reduce the human interface in their operations and increase efficiency through enhanced performance.
Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person.
EACH day presents people with numerous opportunities to do kind things for others.
Whether it is the intense heat that causes fires, the torrential rains in the middle of summer, or the virus that is shaking the whole world, we cannot forget the responsibility of human beings in these phenomena and the consequences of the massive exploitation of natural resources.
I'll wait for you to finish.
To this end, the scheme will ensure financial sustainability of the scheme through innovative efficiency measures which include: Proposed additional funding sources; digitization of membership registrations and renewals; rolling out electronic-claim nationwide; strengthening quality assurance and financial auditing for improved accountability to the public as well as the review of the current law to introduce measures that allows stiffer sanctions to reduce fraud and other malfeasance to serve asa deterrent to criminal minds.
On the AK-47 that was retrieved, the police suspect that it was a police weapon.
The Managing Director said GCB Bank will strategize to become the dominant digital banking player in the country, commending the past administration for the work done in developing technology.“
His body has since been deposited at the James Hospital Morgue pending on autopsy.
“We have political contractors in our midst.
It also risks negating the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals.
“The registration number of the AK-47 that was taken from the people had been erased, but it is suspected that this weapon may be police property,” DSP Moses Atibilla said.
In an interview with Citi News, the Executive Secretary of NLC, Ofosu Asamoah, urged the members to resume work ahead of the meeting.
What is the purpose of dating?
President Akufo-Addo reiterated that the provision of this facility signals the determination of Ghana to continue partnering with the EU, with the President informing Dr. Hoyer that Ghana will fall on the EIB to continue to finance other projects in the pipeline, as the country works to recover from the impact of COVID-19.
We, who are gathered in this room, know the law, which is the chanced uponation of law and order, and the chanced uponation of every organised and progressive society.
She is also heard saying she proceeded to meet with Mr. Asante Bediatuo in the company of some chiefs in a bid to have the plans changed, but Mr. Bediatuo disrespected them.
The contractor also bemoaned the challenge with political contractors in the construction chain.
Delivering aid to Tigray has been extremely challenging over the past few months, despite the urgent need there.
The Ashanti Regional Police Command says the 43-year-old man who was killed during a robbery incident at Buokrom Estate in Kumasi has died.
Give praise when it is truly deserved
She made this call on the sidelines of a relationship seminar organized by the Students Chaplaincy Council of the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Obuasi campus, where she was a Guest speaker.
So be sure your intentions are honorable
The texture of their body can be lumpy, bumpy, or even spiky.
Mr. Charles Adu Boahen, the Minister of State nominee at the Ministry of Finance, says he resigned from his company Black Star Advisors in 2017, and does not engage in their business dealings.
At least three of the people pulled out of the wreckage have been confirmed dead, including a victim believed to be 10 years old.
The dish is too sweet for Asamoah.
Sometimes when you’re lonely you keep checking your phone to see if any of your friends have sent you a message. And when you’re already feeling lonely and you notice that no one has tried to contact you, that can make you feel even worse
He assured that neither himself nor the NDC will do anything against the collective interest of the nation.
The Vice President assured the investor community that while Government welcomes foreign direct
investment, such investment would have to be a partnership that was beneficial to all parties.
It's easier to learn a new language when you are young.
The incident happened at Alavanyo Wududi in the Hohoe Municipality of the Volta Region in the early hours of Wednesday, May 26, 2021.
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality nor denied the right to change his nationality.
So soldiers were not out to inspect licences,” the Minister explained at a press conference held in Accra on Wednesday, May 19, 2021. Mr. Nitiwul also defended the decision of the military to burn the mining equipment of miners operating illegally.
Is it possible to teach a child humility without damaging his or her self-worth?
Nor shall a heavier penalty be imposed than the one that was applicable at the time the penal offence was committed.
The Ghana Library Authority, the institution mandated by law to establish, equip, maintain and manage public libraries in Ghana, has emerged as the ‘Library of the Year’ at the London Book Fair (LBF) International Excellence Awards 2021.
Mr Mahama’s letter further cautioned the AU Chairperson, Moussa Faki Mahamat, that the lack of support by the Federal Government could “jeopardize the whole process and undermine the hopes that the entire world has in bringing peace to the esteemed land of Somalia,” a statement from the Office of the former President said.
Speaking at the launch of the Mime Africa Awards, Akofa Edjeani explained that the only reason why the movie industry is lagging behind is because of a lack of investors.
As a result, many of them suffer from anxiety and depression.
Please put yourself in my place.
In America, rice can be bought for a fifth of what it costs in Japan.
Some of the contractors have moved from sites because the contractual agreement hasn’t been met.
After a year of the launch of the project, what are the authorities waiting to be fixed in order to make the ICT System fully operational?
Both partners should feel that they have been heard and have had a part in the decision-making process.
And I think that is very practical and impressive
Kwabena and his wife wanted to have a child before they were too old.
At least we stopped combating,’ they tell themselves.
After all, a good marriage is the union of two good friends.
She knelt beside him and asked him what his name was.
DEBT can strain or even destroy a family
It's impossible.
I acquired a lot of new skills and experience from the trainings from ADRA
he added the COVID-19 catastrophe knew no boundaries, and urged Ghanaians to continue to abide by the safety protocols to prevent another wave of the disease in the country.
If God did not exist, it would be necessary to invent him.
he added issues affecting the private sector, including shortcomings in the tax collection system and general misunderstanding of the tax laws in the business community, must be addressed by Parliament.
Do not tune out or walk away, even if what you are hearing displeases you.
There are parts of Tigray where it has been possible to reach those in need - particularly areas now stable and under the control of the TPLF.
The entire Law Village Project, according to the President, will cost about US$55 million.
The number of college students is increasing.
When most professional programs on campus became dormant during the pandemic, more and more students continued to register to take the Huawei ICT Academy program due to the Innovative Study at Home initiative which Huawei introduced for the students and instructors to be able to take the course irrespective of their location.
The number of students going abroad to study is increasing each year.
Then take your child along as you assist some of them.
However, the Appointments Committee of Parliament is yet to vet the President’s nominees. The scheduled public hearing from Wednesday, June 2, and would end on Tuesday, June 15, will begin at 10:00 am each day.
Look up words you don't know in your dictionary.
Travel lets you think about your life
That was probably what influenced their decision.
he added the primary purpose of the training was to help participants to know the concepts and definitions of the Census, as well as their duties and responsibilities as field officers for the enumeration.
Twelve people have died and more than 100,000 evacuated following record-breaking rainfall.
Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status.
he added the COVID-19 catastrophe knew no boundaries, and urged Ghanaians to continue to abide by the safety protocols to prevent another wave of the disease in the country.
He thus described it as an “embarrassing stain” on the country’s judicial and electoral systems as well as a major source of worry to well-meaning Ghanaians.
Kwabena asked Abena to help John.
This year’s census will be the sixth conducted in Ghana since the post-independence era.
You don't need to memorize a dictionary to have good knowledge of a language.
The chief enumerated a number of infrastructure projects the MP carried out in the area, including rural electrification, mechanized boreholes, CHPS compounds, school buildings, and a communication tower.
The first edition of the ‘Huawei Day with the Media’ also included a virtual tour of the company’s ultramodern Darwin Exhibition Centre in Shenzhen, China, where participants were informed about how Huawei is employing advanced technology to make the world a better place through initiatives such as the Huawei #TECH4ALL, as well as the company’s contribution towards the combat against the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic.
I think our clients have realized that over the last few years, in terms of technology, GCB Bank is transforming in getting into the digital space. GCB is moving from the traditional bank into a more contemporary.”
Everyone has the right of equal access to public service in his country.
“They returned on Saturday, poured petrol on the generator plant, and around our office facility and set fire into them.
The fire brigade said it had taken about 300 calls - mostly about flooded basements or roads - in the space of a few hours on Sunday.
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, on Wednesday, 26th May, 2021, cut the sod for the first phase of construction works to begin on the Law Village of the Ghana Law School.
I ran across an old friend when I went to the movies yesterday.
This intervention, he further took notice, will help decrease the number of malaria cases, “we see at a particular time or in a month.”
Over 852,000 have so far received the first jab in the first phase of the vaccination exercise.
The same can be said about wrong attitudes. Otherwise, these may become more deeply ingrained.
It has to do with the degradation of our environment and the pollution of the atmosphere and of our water bodies.
“So we are urging to the government to come to our aid”
They have vowed to call off the strike only if the two are withdrawn from the hospital’s laboratory unit.
The Chief Executive Officer of NIMED Capital Limited, Abena BuachiwaaBrigidi, has encouraged women that they can have both a career and a stable family at the same time.
The healing process is made possible by a cascade of complex cellular functions
Since in this organization they're all chiefs and no Indians, it's a wonder any decisions get made.
Traveling builds resilience, and resilient people are typically happier.
Kwabena doesn't remember too much about what happened that day.
The prosecutor said a complaint was lodged with the Domestic Violence and Victim Support Unit of the Police Service at Odorkor, where a medical report form was issued to the complainant, the father, to send the victim to the hospital.
At one time, there was a bridge here.
The military returned Monday, May 17, 2021, at about 4:00 pm to burn a faulty bulldozer that escaped their notice and large water pumping machines.
President Akufo-Addo on behalf of the government of Ghana and Ghanaians sympathized with Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari and the rest of the population over Lt. Gen. Attahiru’s death and that of seven other officials.
Adolescence too is a milestone​—although some parents may not greet its arrival with applause.
Preliminary investigations had established that the accused were into buying, selling and refinery of gold without authority, according to the prosecution.
Many people like to talk more than they like to listen. Are you one of them?
I don't think you fully understand the consequences.
“Many young ones who date break up with each other a week or two later,” says a girl named Ama.
So the answer to all three questions is yes.
Six Chinese nationals, picked up for engaging in illegal mining (galamsey) at Asankragua in the Western Region, have been admitted to bail by an Accra High Court.
The Phobians started the match stronger taking the lead through Daniel Afriyie Barnieh.
We are confident that the analysis and the resulting report will allow the parties to progress discussions toward an agreeable, commercial solution of the matter”, it added.
Management, staff, the board over the In the previous years have invested heavily a lot in technology.
Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution.
The process begins as soon as an injury occurs on the skin.
“The NDC will always remain the party made for the people.
Every time you get together with your friends, you pair off with the same person of the opposite sex. Are you dating?
Ever since international gold trading started over 400 years ago in the ‘Gold Coast’ at ‘El Mina’ has the winning of the precious metal become an existentialist threat like now. To save this nation,Government is being compelled to resort to radical measures, including burning equipment chanced upon near river bodies and in forest reserves.
I cannot disclose any information about the informant.
Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country.
he added the media must play a role in reminding Ghanaians about the devasting impact the pandemic has had on the world economy and the need to work with the government in finding solutions.
I had to walk home.
Lonely people want attention, and they can get to a point where they don’t care who that attention comes from. They just want to feel wanted. But some people will make you feel wanted and then use you. Then you’ll feel lonelier than ever.
Despite the full-time requirements, we hope that you will find time outside of the training to reflect on what you are being taught here”, he added.
The thief used a screwdriver to break into the car.
Eni is trying to find out if there is a viable solution that could be beneficial to all parties.
The best way to improve any skill is to consult an expert on the subject and then to apply the advice he gives.
Can you tell me why Kwabena is doing that?
Education Minister, Dr. Yaw Osei Adutwum, has not taken lightly, comments by former Minister of Education, Prof. Naana Jane Opoku-Agyemang, which ostensibly put into question, the performance of Free Senior High School (SHS) graduates in the West Africa Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE).
You must be careful in choosing your friends.
The Minister of State-designate for Finance, Mr. Charles Adu Boahen, who was also present at the signing ceremony, explained that the focus of Government, since the onset of COVID-19, has been to put in place the building blocks for an inclusive and sustainable economic recovery.
When your mate speaks, try to understand his or her feelings.
The debt stock which ended 2020 at GHS291.6 billion, saw about GHS13 billion being added in the first quarter of 2021.
Ask for her advice, and thank her when she offers it.
Since whiskers are sensitive to pressure, cats use them to determine the position and movement of an object or of prey.
As part of his visit, the High Commissioner and the MP shall pay a courtesy call on the Yaa-Naa, and also hold crunch meeting with the MP and other dignitaries, and visit the Yendi Water Project site.
Are you afraid of me?
The move, according to Citi News sources at the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources, is aimed at ensuring efficiency at the Commission.
Some young people who lack social skills isolate themselves from others and become easy marks for bullies.
Additionally, he expressed appreciation to the MP for understanding a number of infrastructure projects in the town.
When you feel stressed or “down,” traveling can make you happier and help you improve your life in so many ways.
Exempting your child from family chores might give him the message, ‘You are too important to do this!’ Family duties should come first, and playing second.
It’s better to discuss the problem respectfully.
In an interview with Citi News, the Executive Secretary of NLC, Ofosu Asamoah, urged the members to resume work ahead of the meeting.
A week after severe flooding hit western Europe, devastating Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands, German officials said Thursday they fear the 158 people still missing there may not be chanced upon.
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile.
Your speech was appropriate for the occasion.
So the reason we are borrowing 60 billion, 70 billion, and 280 billion; is not because Ghana needs it, but because some people need the money.
he added issues affecting the private sector, including shortcomings in the tax collection system and general misunderstanding of the tax laws in the business community, must be addressed by Parliament.
The vaccination exercise is scheduled to take place from the 31st of May to 8th of June 2021.
Mr. Mahama also took a swipe at the Supreme Court saying it has set a “dangerous precedence” by not allowing the Chairperson of the Electoral Commission to testify during the trial.
Parents and children can start discussions on such topics as ‘When is buying things on sale a good idea?
According to the government, British Airways went ahead with the move without any consultation.
His assurance comes days after President Akuffo Addo swore in the Chairperson, Jean Adukwei Mensa and her two deputies and a corporate legal practitioner, Adwoa Asuama Abrefa who is a member of the Commission.
There were the reports of vehicles becoming stranded as water quickly rose to block dozens of roads and affected underground lines.
What else do you want me to read?
Decide what you need to buy and how much you can afford to spend
News Editor for the Daily Graphic, Mr. Samuel Ablordepey, who was also present at the event was amazed by Huawei’s huge portfolio of innovative solutions and recounted his experience at the 2019 Huawei Connect event in China as an eye-opener.
“For example, you may have a very big water body like a lake that we cannot readily drain or even a marshy area that serves as a source or breeding site for mosquitoes,” he added.
According to him, “We want to restructure the economy and move it from being a mere producer and exporter of raw materials to one that places much greater emphasis on value addition activities.
The MP cut the sod last Saturday, May 23, for work to begin on the GH¢800,000 projects.
It has also embarked on a digitization exercise to streamline all of its data records and plans to transition to an entirely online system within the next three to six months. This will significantly reduce delays in the licensing process and will eliminate the paper application, with all clients expected to complete applications online.
We have what it takes and we have the capacity; it requires leadership and that is the leadership I seek to bring through GCB Bank to drive this agenda.
What's your favorite place to go when you want to think?
“Many young ones who date break up with each other a week or two later,” says a girl named Gloria
I should go home and get some sleep.
But that approach can deprive your body of the very nutrients it needs.
The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection by society and the State.
“We have a regime that we are implementing for the oil sector, and we want to implement the same
regime for the mining sector.
The intent to revert to Heathrow is expected to be finalized by July 2021 as that is the winter slot deadline.
Laboratory Scientists at KATH began a one-week sit-down strike last week to protest the posting of two medical officers to the Laboratory Services Directorate of the hospital.
The kids are yelling, the television is blaring, and you are thinking about a problem you had at work
That way you will teach your child humility in the most powerful way
"Of course, the beginning is always a little more difficult to adapt to a new style of play, which changes everything, but we have everything we need to improve, to continue working and start the season well."
Continuing, the oil firm said unitization is appropriate when a hydrocarbon accumulation straddles a contract area boundary or hydrocarbons from one contract area migrate into the other contract area or hydrocarbons are commercially producible on both sides of the contract area boundary.
“We heard of the leakage of the exams, we heard of invigilators being compromised, we heard many things, and we also saw the students come out and speak about, ‘this is not what we were told will happen’, now these students have As, and we are excited?
There are a lot of shops in Kumasi.
Unconfirmed the reports suggest that many of the victims are not residents of the community as none of the residents could identify any of the deceased.
It was part of the government’s plan to boost the military’s efficiency in combating a more than decade-long jihadist insurgency.
Some parents dole out undeserved praise in an attempt to boost their children’s self-esteem.
There’s no lender who’ll give you money for consumption so if we don’t see infrastructure to go with the monies borrowed, then it’s been used for something else.” His comments come after the Information Minister, Kojo Oppong Nkrumah said the Akufo-Addo government had to embark on extra borrowing in order to get the Ghanaian economy functioning despite the harsh impact of COVID-19.
We will however continue to be the voice of the voiceless and will not be distracted demanding justice and fairness at all times.”
“Neither will we surrender nor fail to champion the rights of all our people to enjoy the fundamental freedoms guaranteed under our constitution.”
Sky FC also brushed aside Premier League side Ebusua Dwarfs, winning 2-0.
Key milestones such as the digitalisation of the passport office, digital addressing system, paperless ports, mobile money operability, and many others have increased the productivity and growth of the Ghanaian economy.
Kwasi thought that Abena would like to go to Boston to see John.
Work is expected to be completed in 10 months time.
He's learning French so he can get a better salary.
Tell Kwabena for me, OK?
First, determine for each debt the interest rate, the fees, the impact of a late or missed payment, and the possibility that a payment is already overdue
A me-first mentality also exists in many homes.
The country is heading in the right direction.
For example, one wife who was both verbally and physically battered by her husband says: “I chanced upon the insults harder to bear than the violence.
My friend is also worried that she will be hurt, so when people extend the effort to get to know her, she either assigns bad motives to them or assumes that the friendship is bound to fail. She feels lonely because she isn’t understood by most people, but she refuses to share her feelings with them
Some just assume that they will be promoted quickly, even without mastering their trade.
Many people open their shops and wait for customers to come and buy.
I had to walk home.
With proper guidance, however, your child will likely emerge from adolescence as a responsible young adult with his or her “perceptive powers trained to distinguish both right and wrong
Although details are sketchy, the Tamale South legislator named one Damoah as the gentleman picked who has been picked by the security agency for investigation.
Being pressured to date before you’re ready would be like being forced to take a final exam for a course that you’ve barely started.
He further stated that “For us at the Ghana Library Authority, this recognition underscores the impact we have made in the last few years in transforming public library service to be responsive to the life-long learning needs of our citizens.”
Be assured that compromise need not be a lose-lose proposition—not if you do it right.
This kind gesture makes Ghana the first African country to have undertaken such an initiative.
Akwesi Yeboah pleaded not guilty to the charge of defilement, but was chanced upon guilty by the Accra Circuit Court, presided over by Ms. Christiana Cann, after a full trial.
How did one make it to age twenty-three without knowing that?”
Make a list of your necessary expenses, including food, clothing, rent or mortgage, car payments, and the like
Mr. Adongo insisted that the nominee in his previous position as the Deputy Finance Minister granted an undue benefit to his company through fees and charges on bonds issued by the state in which the added company was advisors to the bonds.
The chanced uponation observes that continuous challenge girls face to access accurate information on how to observe menstrual hygiene in addition to high cost of menstrual pads, as factors impeding adherence to menstrual hygiene
“The Union will also want to use this opportunity to renew its call and advocacy on the need for government to prioritize the ratification of International Labour Organization Convention 176 (Safety and Health in the Mines Convention) in order to further tighten and align the industry’s health and safety regulatory framework to globally acceptable standards”, it said in a statement.
According to the Chief of Defence Staff, Vice Admiral Seth Amoama, over seven hundred excavators believed to have been moved from mining sites are likely to be taken back to mining sites.
The Armed Forces have not seized any gold.
Mr Polley said each trainee had been given a hard copy of the Field Officer’s Manual, questionnaire and tablet among other things for the training.
What is the purpose of dating?
I don't regret a thing.
CEO of ZEEPAY, Andrew Takyi Appiah, on his part said the Central Bank should not relent on its efforts in enforcing its directives so as to bring sanity into the financial sector.
All are entitled to equal protection against any discrimination in violation of this Declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination.
I got to a point where I had to balance my career and family life.
How to Be Humble
These are allied health professionals.
She also takes Ghc200 as feeding fee from each student per month but feeds the students with meals allegedly prepared for boarding students.
The enemy gave in without further resistance.
Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to just and favourable conditions of work and to protection against unemployment.
Consider three traps that could foster a me-first spirit in your children, and see how you can avoid those traps.
Members of the Indian Community in Ghana have lauded the prompt offer of help, which came from Ghanaians of diverse backgrounds.
Lt-Gen Ibrahim Attahiru, was killed after a military Beachcraft 350 aircraft crashed in the north-western state of Kaduna on Friday, May 21, 2021.
Researchers have took notice a disturbing trend: Many young adults are entering the workforce with a marked sense of entitlement—an attitude in which they expect success, even if they have done little or nothing to earn it.
Think: Would you like someone to play with your feelings as if they were some child’s toy—to be picked up for a moment and then quickly abandoned?
No deaths have been reported among the brothers; however, two publishers sustained minor injuries.
I try to have balanced meals from all food groups.
The number of students going abroad to study is increasing rapidly each year.
Traveling builds resilience, and resilient people are typically happier.
Also, he says these suspects have been picked up in relation to other related robberies in the region.
In his address to some personnel during his visit to some illegal mining sites, the Chief of Defence Staff took notice that the illegal miners now mine at night under the protection of heavily armed men.
I thank ADRA for these valuable trainings. I also thank the church for its support. I wish to get more seeds in order to increase my production
For a month, keep track of your eating habits. How often do you go to one of the extremes described above? What adjustments can you make to have a balanced diet?
As a medical doctor, I am not an allied health professional so under no circumstance can that regulatory agency regulate my practice.
When your daughter was a child, she told you everything. Now as a teenager, she has formed a ‘social club’ with her friends, and you feel as if you were not granted membership.
When things are calm, try the following exercise with your partner.
I bear no grudge against you.
“In a situation where we’ve borrowed so much and you can’t see infrastructure to go with it, then it becomes a cause to worry.
“I will mention to all persons in Ghana that we are taking all the necessary steps to ensure that the census adheres to the strict protocols of COVID-19. What are some of the things we are doing? We have already engaged with the Ministry of Health through the Ghana Health Service, and they had an engagement with Dr. Anthony Nsiah Asare, who is the Presidential Advisor on Health, and a confirmation has been given that all 85,000 officials that we are going to engage from the beginning of 31st May 2021, will be vaccinated. All our 85,000 supervisors will go through the exercise.”
In some cases, children are being raised in materialistic families.
The MP urged chiefs and opinion leaders in the area to support initiatives that would facilitate teaching and learning in schools.
“People are being transferred to the laboratory space and you [laboratory scientists] are driving them away and because of that, there is a national strike.
“They come to view relationships as transitory—which in a sense prepares them for divorce rather than for marriage.”
I think it is a journey, I don’t think we are there yet, but I think we are on the right track.”
Deputy Chairman of the Electoral Commission, Dr. Pinkrah has assured Ghanaians that it will deliver very fair elections at all levels.
In fact, for the business community, we are trying to pitch to them on their posture of sales.
Meanwhile, residents who live in Buokrom Estate say the level of insecurity in the area is worrying.
The lure of easy credit can also make it easy for newlyweds to overspend.
In order to have a right to the hydrocarbons produced and in proceeds from the production, each party must first pay its share of the costs of producing hydrocarbons from the unitized field.”
I am sure in the next 20 years, cash will be scarce in a lot of countries including Ghana, and I think Ghana is moving quite quickly towards that stage”, he added.
The deceased Akwesi Dagatsi was aged 45.
Men and women of full age, without any limitation due to race, nationality or religion, have the right to marry and to chanced upon a family. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during marriage and at its dissolution.
If your attempts at compromise only escalate into heated arguments, it may be that you and your partner are focusing too much on where your views differ.
Antwi peeked in the window and saw Abena and John kissing.
Justice Gifty Agyei Addo consequently directed Achimota School to admit the two Rastafarian Students.
But what will you do if he doesn't come?
Education Minister, Dr. Yaw Osei Adutwum, has not taken lightly, comments by former Minister of Education, Prof. Naana Jane Opoku-Agyemang, which ostensibly put into question, the performance of Free Senior High School (SHS) graduates in the West Africa Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE).
President Akufo-Addo acknowledged that the implementation of any new policy is likely to face challenges.
President Nana Akufo-Addo has already pledged the services of Ghanaian doctors and nurses to India should they be needed at any time.
President Akufo-Addo in September In the previous year launched the Free Senior High school, (SHS), policy which provided 90 thousand more students gain access to Senior High school.
The closed banks were said to be facing liquidity challenges.
He suddenly hit on a good idea while he was taking a bath.
On Monday, India became the third country to top 300,000 deaths from the virus, after Brazil and the United States. India has reported a total of 26,948,874 Covid-19 cases, including 307,231 deaths.
The woman tried on one hat after another, then left the hat shop.
You can’t always blame others for your loneliness. Sometimes you are the one who has separated yourself. So do what you can to include yourself again. If that doesn’t work, try making new friends​—perhaps with some you haven’t tried to make friends with before
The panelists who commended the Central Banks move of merging five insolvent Banks said it is an innovative and efficient intervention.
One or both partners may be repeating the type of language they heard from their parents.
The deceased, Yaw Eyifa Gorman, popularly known as Dr Sting, was killed in his car after he returned home from a training programme on Population Census
“Then all of a sudden, we heard his wife screaming ‘Please someone should come and help me!’
This has enabled the state to save some huge amount of money.
In the provincial capital of Zhengzhou, at least 12 people died when floodwaters inundated an underground subway line on Tuesday night.
Tickets are valid for just two days, including the day they are purchased on.
The German Development Cooperation in Ghana (GIZ) has partnered with the Ghana Chamber of Technology to heighten Ghana’s Digital Transformation Agenda.
“Whether teachers, doctors, students, drivers, businessmen and women or government employees – each contributed to the best of their abilities,” one of them told the Ghana News Agency.
The President was expectant that the completion of the Law Village will expand access to legal education, without compromising on its quality, and, ultimately, assist in the administration of justice throughout the country.
Softening your tone and acknowledging your partner’s point of view are potent tools you can employ to diffuse tension and end escalation.
Continuing, the oil firm said unitization is appropriate when a hydrocarbon accumulation straddles a contract area boundary or hydrocarbons from one contract area migrate into the other contract area or hydrocarbons are commercially producible on both sides of the contract area boundary.
Today, my family is surprised by the taste of the dishes I prepare with simple ingredients
Kwabena put a piece of dry ice into a cup of water.
The Minority Leader, Haruna Iddrisu, has said an official at the Jubilee House was picked up by the National Security officials few days ago for allegedly engaging in illegal mining popularly known as galamsey.
What the program does is that it exposes the students to real -life experiences, asking them what problems can be solved?
Hurtful speech has become so common in your marriage that it is now your “normal” style of communication.
A 48-year-old mason has been sentenced to 15 years in prison for defiling a four-year-old girl at Odorkor in Accra.
According to him, the practice is illegal and unwarranted.
It competed against the Kenya National Library Services (Kenya) and Public Library “Fran Galovic” Koprivnica (Croatia) in the final shortlist.
One researcher admits that this synthetic healing process currently under development is “reminiscent” of what already exists in nature.
All are equal before the law and are entitled without any discrimination to equal protection of the law.
You see evidence of that nearly everywhere—from the shameless way people defraud others to the aggressive way they drive, from their crude language to their explosive tempers.
Many households have lost their livelihoods because of the COVID-19 pandemic and are partially unable to meet their food and nutritional needs
That is an increase of about GHS 14 billion from January to March this year, bringing total domestic debt to GHS163.6 billion at the end of the period under review, representing 37.7 per cent of the projected GDP for 2021.
Mr. Mahama also took a swipe at the Supreme Court saying it has set a “dangerous precedence” by not allowing the Chairperson of the Electoral Commission to testify during the trial.
I did not have to sacrifice my family just to pursue a career.
Earlier this year, UT Bank and Capital Bank also faced the same liquidation problem.
Everyone has the right to recognition everywhere as a person before the law.
Compared with other topics, arguments about debt and finances last longer, generate more yelling and hitting, and are more likely to carry over into other issues
When she speaks, the world listens.
If your adult stepchildren are persistently rude or disrespectful to you, share your feelings with your mate and listen carefully to his or her thoughts.
Brazil is surrounded by ten countries and the Atlantic Ocean.
The President was expectant that the completion of the Law Village will expand access to legal education, without compromising on its quality, and, ultimately, assist in the administration of justice throughout the country.
The pathologist believes it is problematic for the Allied Health Professional Council to dictate or regulate the functions of physicians and where they should operate from as it was seeking to do with the two hematologists.
Considering all I've eaten all day is just one slice of bread, I'm not really all that hungry.
Whereas the peoples of the United Nations have in the Charter reaffirmed their faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the equal rights of men and women and have determined to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom,
The move, according to Star News sources at the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources, is aimed at ensuring efficiency at the Commission.
We were attending to a customer when a fair tall man entered and held the customer.
Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children.
‘What has got into him?’ you wonder. ‘I want him to feel good about himself​—but not to think that he is better than everyone else!’
We will build a refinery here to refine the bauxite to alumina, take it to VALCO, and get aluminium and you will see the massive increase in value.
So soldiers were not out to inspect licences,” the Minister explained at a press conference held in Accra on Wednesday, May 19, 2021. Mr. Nitiwul also defended the decision of the military to burn the mining equipment of miners operating illegally.
You taught me that.
According to the GRA, Santol Energy and a few others have satisfactorily met the requirements to proceed with their business.
The Ghana Union of Traders Association (GUTA) at Kasoa in the Awutu Senya East District of the Central region has threatened to close down shops of foreign nationals engaged in retail businesses.
After one year of the launch of the project, what are the authorities waiting to be fixed in order to make the ICT System fully operational?
Then discuss your lists together.
I can't work for you anymore.
This used to be such a friendly place. "Tell me about it."
Many a bad headline can be traced to a law and order problem.
WAEC has an algorithm to detect students who have cheated and apprehend them every year.
If you decide to live in the house that the children were raised in, you may be surprised at the attachment they still feel toward it.
Talking to my sons used to be pleasant. They listened carefully to what I had to say, and they responded immediately.
Mr. Bless told the Daily Graphic in an interview that the projects were meant to facilitate teaching and learning in the school.
Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in association with others..
I got to a point where I had to balance my career and family life.
And in a world on a mission to build self-esteem, that was considered the epitome of irresponsible parenting.
Kofi and Ama got married when they were very young.
The incident happened as the plane was trying to land in bad weather, the military said.
I didn't have enough time to finish my presentation.
According to him, in all his public service, he has always put the interest of Ghana first in every decision he has taken.
Los Angeles is the second largest city in the United States.
Your letter reached me only today, having been delayed by the heavy snow.
“He has no issue with anybody in this house.
Most stepparents must deal with the child’s other parent when it comes to such issues as visitation, discipline, and financial support.
Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association.
But there can be a drawback. Praise focused on talent alone could cause your child to think that the only skills worth pursuing are those that come easily.
In recent decades, many parents have felt compelled to protect their children from any type of adversity.
The mother of two, whose surname is being withheld for professional reasons, enjoyed her job in the firm’s wealth-management division.
The police subsequently retrieved one gold detector and three motorbikes suspected to have been stolen from their respective owners.
Their apprehension is understandable. After all, what dad or mom is excited to see a compliant child turn into a moody teen?
Limit displays of affection with the children in their mother’s presence.
A wife might write, “You got upset because I spent time with my friends.”
Calls by the Ministry of Health and management of KATH for the scientists to resume work for dialogue to start have yielded no results.
According to him, this forms part of government’s broader plan of improving the country’s road network and bring development close to Ghanaians.
It may seem like a crazy idea, but I think we should go visit Kwabena and Abena right now.
She seems to get fatter and fatter.
he added such projects have given Tinjase town and surrounding communities a facelift.
They have vowed to call off the strike only if the two are withdrawn from the hospital’s laboratory unit.
The 2021 Population and Housing Census (PHC), with the slogan, ‘You Count, Get Counted’, will provide the opportunity for the country to gather credible and comprehensive data on the citizenry towards transforming the economy for sustainable development.
Happiness isn't the destination, happiness is the journey.
“People are being transferred to the laboratory space and you [laboratory scientists] are driving them away and because of that, there is a national strike.
“I believe we [Ghana] are at a stage that we are just taking off.
The Vice Chancellor expressed the sentiments in a speech read for him by the Principal of the Tamale Campus of UDS, Prof. Sylvester Z. Galaa at the matriculation of graduate students pursuing sandwich programs in Tamale.
I did nothing.
Mr. Adomakoh said his outfit is poised to reposition itself as the most dominant bank in the country to deliver commitment in service, in value to customers, to grow indigenous Ghanaian businesses.
Have you ever lived in a rural area?
Moreover, burning equipment is an expensive waste and has failed before and that rather, equipment should be seized, processed through court and used for other productive purposes by needy state institutions.
Everyone has duties to the community in which alone the free and full development of his personality is possible.
Besides the piano, can you play any other instruments?
I remember that I gave him the key.
The instant he opened the door, he smelt something burning.
He has thus advised Ghanaians to embrace this measure when its implementation begins.
The BA team is yet to provide any information as promised,” excerpts of the statement revealed.
They are all acting on the strengths that their government is in power,” he stated.
He has resolutely tackled political violence, taking the unprecedented steps of not only setting up a Commission after the Ayawaso West Wuogon election, but also encouraging the two major parties to dialogue face to face and then passing anti-violence legislation the success of which was more than evident in the 2020 Elections.
Preliminary investigations had established that the accused were into buying, selling and refinery of gold without authority, according to the prosecution.
A couple should trust each other and work together when deciding how money will be spent.
Will you read my essay and correct the mistakes, if any?
I started to make healthy swaps, one per day. For example, instead of eating a candy bar, I ate an apple. Before long I was making many healthy swaps each day
“It shows the deep roots of friendship that exists between the two communities since independence,” he added.
What is your reason for your being late to work?
We will build a refinery here to refine the bauxite to alumina, take it to VALCO, and get aluminium and you will see the massive increase in value.
Explain, too, that a person with a balanced view of himself does not feel the need to broadcast his abilities to others.
What did you do this week?
Besides how much you praise your child, you also have to consider the kind of praise you offer. Which type will encourage your child? Which type might hinder him? How can you offer praise that will have the best outcome?
The same can be said about wrong attitudes. Otherwise, these may become more deeply ingrained.
Details will be forthcoming.
I can't stand the noise.
Belgium held a day of mourning on Tuesday for its flood victims - the death toll is at least 31.
Meanwhile, a CNN report indicates that India reported 196,427 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, May 25, the lowest single-day rise in cases since April 14, 2021.
Happiness isn't the destination, happiness is the journey.
The President continued, “with the 2021/2022 academic year fast approaching, the school is, again, faced with limited and overstretched facilities, hence the added importance of this project”.
Would you please stop pacing around like that and just sit down for a second?
That irritates me! Why are some men so difficult to understand? How do people make a marriage succeed?”
The story of environmental degradation occasioned by illegal mining, what we call galamsey, is a clear case of people breaking the law.
Commenting, the MD of Stanbic Bank and President of the Ghana Bankers Association, Alhassan Andani said because the financial sector acts as a nerve of the economy, it is important that it is well managed.
Plan ahead. Don’t assume that all the money you have in the bank is available to spend. If you don’t keep money in reserve, you’ll never be prepared for emergencies, such as car repairs
Perhaps you were raised in a household where apologies were seldom uttered.
For example, imagine that a husband and wife plan a trip and the wife would like to take her parents along.
Education shall be directed to the full development of the human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. It shall promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations, racial or religious groups, and shall further the activities of the United Nations for the maintenance of peace.
Now that the government has joined the cashless society, there will be a lot more of this and fewer situations that one may need cash”,
The President of PEF, Nana Osei Bonsu, who led the delegation, said it was time for the legislature to create a periodic dialogue platform where issues affecting the private sector could be discussed with members of the House.
Medical oxygen becomes essential for treatment of severe COVID-19 patients.
With the Ghana School of Law being the nation’s sole institution responsible for professional legal education, and for training eligible persons as lawyers and integrating them into the legal system, President Akufo-Addo expressed his delight about the project taking place under his Presidency.
Ten other officers, including the plane’s crew, also died.
So far a total of nine excavators, two bulldozers, five smaller generators, a generator plant, 150 small pumping machines, 250 gallons of diesel have been burnt, the office structure and other items have been destroyed. Management of Xtra
According to the Association’s General Secretary Thomas Musa, “this ruling will not affect teacher-student relationship”
“The registration number of the AK-47 that was taken from the people had been erased, but it is suspected that this weapon may be police property,” DSP Moses Atibilla said.
Also, I don’t think it’s wrong occasionally to have a candy bar or eat fast food. But that shouldn’t be all a person’s diet consists of.
Ghana’s aim of advancing the agenda especially amidst the Covid-19 pandemic is expected to receive massive support from the German Development Cooperation in Ghana via a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Digital Transformation Center of GIZ and the Ghana Chamber of Technology (GCT).
Then don’t do that to someone else!
As has often been repeated by H.E the President, he does not intend to stop the age old business of artisanal mining but its highly destructive modern version must necessarily be stopped with all the authority and force the state commands.
he added the primary purpose of the training was to help participants to know the concepts and definitions of the Census, as well as their duties and responsibilities as field officers for the enumeration.
A short walk will bring you to the station.
Later, approach your friend and ask, “Did you feel that I was really listening to you?”
he added Parliament will directly engage them on the drafting of amendments to laws that affect their operations in order to ensure that their concerns are fully addressed.
Some expatriates of other countries in Ghana also participated in the noble cause.
It competed against the Kenya National Library Services (Kenya) and Public Library “Fran Galovic” Koprivnica (Croatia) in the final shortlist.
Rescue services have continued to comb through towns ravaged by the floods in search for potential survivors.
The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Bank of Ghana, for the first time since March 2020, reduced the policy rate to 13.5% after it was kept unchanged at 14.5 percent for six consecutive times.
If you were to do all the things you want and not listen to your partner or give your partner a chance to express another view, you would be living as if you were still single
Eni is trying to find out if there is a viable solution that could be beneficial to all parties.
The simple act of listening can play a large role in helping you control your anger.
“That’s fine” might really mean “That’s not fine”—depending on how it is said.
Education shall be directed to the full development of the human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. It shall promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations, racial or religious groups, and shall further the activities of the United Nations for the maintenance of peace.
The new GDP figure represents an increase of about 13% over the GDP figure for 2020 which stood at GHS383.3 billion.
On Monday, India became the third country to top 300,000 deaths from the virus, after Brazil and the United States. India has reported a total of 26,948,874 Covid-19 cases, including 307,231 deaths. There are 2,586,782 confirmed active cases in the country, according to the health ministry.
I'll soon register for a course in German.
Now ask one of your parents the same question
“I was here around 5.30am. It is almost 12:00pm, and I just got vaccinated.
‘What has got into him?’ you wonder. ‘I want him to feel good about himself​—but not to think that he is better than everyone else!’
Spanning from the establishment of Google’s first Africa Artificial Intelligence Lab in 2019 to Twitter’s quest to set up in Ghana this year, the country has gone several notches ahead amongst other African nations in attracting foreign tech giants.
Will you please explain to me the exact meaning of the word?
What exactly is dating?
Leadership of the association are worried menstruation is the major contributing factor to school absenteeism and poor academic performance among school girls.
Meanwhile, the police is picking some reliable leads that will help apprehend the perpetrators of this heinous crime.
If they have seized any gold they will declare it.
I am stating categorically that my ambulance number is GV 677-19.
He responds by calling her oversensitive.
What happened? There's water all over the apartment.
James is having a hard time deciding what to wear to the party.
After firing the gun, with the aim of killing the lady, Sampson killed himself and died in the process, thinking the lady had been killed.
Give correction when necessary
He didn't like to ask for help even if he was starving.
So don’t overreact to such emotionally charged statements as “You never listen” or “You are always late.
As a matter of fact, this project has already turned into a Deja Vu and in complete limbo.
How much time do you spend every day helping your children with their homework?
Speaking about the Mime Africa Awards, Akofa Edjeani said the initiative will push movie producers to compete for excellence because low-budgeted movies with no impact will hardly get nominated.
Write down one or two areas in which you could extend a little more freedom to your adolescent. Explain to him that you are extending this freedom on a trial basis.
He added that is an initiative that helps cultivate young talents, ensuring that the tech-savvy and change-resilient young people have the skills and mindsets needed to be competitive in the workplaces of the future.
In a statement, Eni said it has leverage on expertise in unitization, based on negotiation and execution of more than 130 unitization and pre-unitization agreements around the world including Australia, Algeria, Angola, USA, Croatia, Italy, Mozambique, Nigeria, Norway.
I owe you a dinner.
One part of the 135-millimeter (5 in.) arm can manipulate soft internal organs by lifting and holding them without causing any damage to them, while another part performs the actual operation.
Mr. Mahama also took a swipe at the Supreme Court saying it has set a “dangerous precedence” by not allowing the Chairperson of the Electoral Commission to testify during the trial.
During the search, the father saw her emerge from the room of the accused crying, with her dress wet and the zip opened.
Also, using the military as the primary enforcement agent is wrong. It should be police.
According to the Police, the suspects were allegedly planning to clash with an opposing faction in a chieftaincy dispute in the village of Bagliga Dakpem-Yili.
Kofi Eshun has flatly denied claims by an unnamed woman in an audio that has gone viral, that he held a meeting with her and others in a bid to sell the Gimpa, a public property.
Lonely people want attention, and they can get to a point where they don’t care who that attention comes from. They just want to feel wanted. But some people will make you feel wanted and then use you. Then you’ll feel lonelier than ever.
This right may not be invoked in the case of prosecutions genuinely arising from non-political crimes or from acts contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.
This is the mistake that unfortunately, the allied health professionals are making.”
The development comes as the GRA is clamping down on OMCs across the country that have not met relevant statutory requirements.
It’s similar with dating.
These will be given out for free.
The teacher was worried by Asamoah's frequent absence from class.
This is a nationalexerciseand for the next few days we will require you to sacrifice your time and your energy
We have had regular elections and sitting governments have been defeated, and there have been peaceful transfers of power.
Travel can strengthen your relationships
Speaking at an interactive session with the Parliamentary Press Corps on Wednesday, Mr Iddrisu observed that several other government officials are engaged in the illegal business since their party is in office.
Speaking at a press briefing in Accra on Sunday, May 23, 2021, on measures the government is taking to improve Ghana’s road network, the sector Minister indicated that the Hamile road has now been asphalted.
He stressed that the Development Bank Ghana will be a central player for Ghana’s economic recovery and structural transformation, “especially given the importance of counter-cyclical support in stimulating private enterprise.”
In fact, one reference work poignantly describes adolescence as “one long goodbye.”
Now things have changed, and both you and your partner must put your marriage above your personal preferences.
Speaking after Chelsea's 2-0 defeat to Manchester City in the Community Shield, Willian said: "I've always made it very clear that I've always been very excited playing for Chelsea. I never said that I want to leave the club.
A major function of adolescence is to help prepare your son or daughter for that bittersweet day.
“The NDC will always remain the party of the people.
When most professional programs on campus became dormant during the pandemic, more and more students continued to register to take the Huawei ICT Academy program due to the Innovative Study at Home initiative which Huawei introduced for the students and instructors to be able to take the course irrespective of their location.
Nana Addo does not have the right, authority, capacity or inclination to stop the media from doing its legitimate work.
Gen. Attahiru, 54, only took up his post in January in an overhaul of the military’s top brass.
We want him to lead the lawful Republic of Ghana in accordance with his oath to uphold the constitution and the laws of Ghana and to hold himself accountable to the laws of Ghana.
Dr. Samuel Thomas, an India physician, from a community hospital of Tamil Nadu State, expressed his gratitude to Ghanaians for the timely donation, which according to him, would go a long way in treating critically ill patients.
Subsequent investigation has also established that these suspects are involved in many other robberies cases reported to the region” he added.
The President of PEF, Nana Osei Bonsu, who led the delegation, said it was time for the legislature to create a periodic dialogue platform where issues affecting the private sector could be discussed with members of the House.
For example, the saltwater crocodile, found near Australia, can bite nearly three times as hard as a lion or a tiger.
Speaking to Citi Business News on the recent development, the President of GUTA, Dr. Joseph Obeng, welcomed the lowering of the policy rate but charged the government to introduce a system that will compel banks to reduce their interest rates in a manner that’s commensurate with the drop in the policy rate.
I have been hearing people forcing the Armed Forces to accept that they have seized things that they have not seized.
“We don’t want the raw bauxite being taken out of Ghana anymore.
It's a matter that concerns all of us.
“The registration number of the AK-47 that was taken from the people had been erased, but it is suspected that the weapon may be police property,” DSP Moses Atibilla said.
There was so much I had to do, and I had also booked an important appointment that I really had to be present for.
The vision of GCB Bank is “to be the leading bank in all our markets”, whilst its mission is to provide first class banking solutions for our customers and value for all stakeholders.
Over and above that, I think we need to reposition ourselves [GCB Bank} as to how we select some government initiatives and see how we implement them, how we support government to implement some of their initiatives; around manufacturing, value addition, exports driven market.
All these come at a time the government has renewed the combat against all forms of illegal mining to protect the country’s forest reserves and rivers.
hey made me feel worthless, unwanted, and good-for-nothing. I’d rather have been given a black eye.
It recognizes organizations and individuals demonstrating notable originality, creativity, and innovation within the industry.
But Prof. Akosa on Citi TV’s Point of View said the strike is unchanced uponed, given that hematologists are equally qualified to work in laboratories.
But your partner’s faults do not excuse bad behavior on your part.
Instead of trying to force a friendship, let your relationship with your stepchildren develop naturally.
Speaking after Chelsea's 2-0 defeat to Manchester City in the Community Shield, Willian said: "I've made it very clear that I've always been very excited playing for Chelsea. I never said that I want to leave the club.
On average, a girl will have 13 menstruation circles a year.
The students did so well and instead [of] commending them, you look at these young men and women and tell them that they cheated”
Call me up whenever you need my help.
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile.
“Our hearts go out to their families and may their souls rest in perfect peace”, Akufo-Addo tweeted.
Parliamentarians were infuriated by an announcement in the House that the elections would be postponed because a staff member had tested positive for Covid-19.
Belgium accounts for 32 deaths and 18 missing, according to its national crisis center.
Do you know a young person who is dealing with a serious health problem? Do you have an illness or disability that prevents you from enjoying the activities that others your age take part in?
Whether on the phone or face-to-face, in the open or in secret, if you and a friend of the opposite sex have a special romantic understanding and communicate regularly, it’s dating.
The problem? One or both of you may not know how to forgive.
Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security and is entitled to realization, through national effort and international co-operation and in accordance with the organization and resources of each State, of the economic, social and cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his personality.
Of course, the advertising industry has been all too eager to exploit this hungry consumer market.
Children should appreciate nature and how much we depend on it for survival.
The process is intricate. “Lizards must actively adjust the angle of their tails just right to remain upright,” says a report released by the University of California, Berkeley.
When you shake hands with somebody, you must look him in the eye.
The donation will be shared among 30 health facilities in rural areas across 14 different states/regions.
An Economist at the University of Ghana Business School, Dr Lord Mensah, says Ghana’s economy has been in distress since 2017 adding that the government must reduce its appetite for borrowing from the local market.
We need money to do anything.
You assume that there is a hidden message behind your partner’s words, when in fact you may be reading too much into the situation.
Don't let this opportunity pass you by.
he added this has become necessary to improve access to fresh water bodies for irrigated farming and
other agricultural purposes.
“We have decided that we are not going to allow what has happened to gold and manganese to happen with bauxite. Parliament just passed the Ghana Integrated Bauxite Authority Bill. We are forming this with bauxite. Parliament just passed the Ghana Integrated Bauxite Authority Bill. We are forming this corporation, and will be forming partnerships with anybody who comes, a joint venture, to build an integrated bauxite and aluminium industry.
The President said, when I was in my car, I felt like weeping when we were driving on that road.”
Commenting on the chaos created on the floor of the House, Frank Annoh-Dompreh said the behaviour of his colleagues was unbecoming of them and called for reasoning to prevail.
But before considering how to compromise, there are a few things you should know about this vital skill.
Suddenly, the door opened and her father entered.
The Chief of Tinjase, Ubor Mamunin II, lauded Mr. Bless for initiating the school projects.
Similar stories have also been reported in the early part of 2021.
Asamoah spent most days begging for money in front of tourist attractions.
It is impossible for me to finish the work in an hour.
First, do not expect that just because you exchanged wedding vows, you and your partner become instant experts at married life.
he added when all stakeholders contribute their quota to improve teaching and learning environment in schools, pupils would perform better.
Dr Darku further denied assertions that his outfit has inadequate staff to properly supervise road projects across the country, “the Ghana Highway Authority has a total of 173 Engineers across the country, the Department of Urban Roads has 86 and Department of Feeder Roads has 143.”
In other decisions, the Review panel also highly commended Referee Rejoice Addokwei for her bold decision in the Women’s Premier League match between Supreme Ladies and Pearl Pia Ladies.
“We have not really benefited from the extraction of our natural resources, and it is for this reason that
we need especially in the area of our minerals, to bring a new paradigm, a new thinking into how as a
country we can benefit more from our mineral resources,” the Vice President took notice.
Mr. Adongo insisted that the nominee in his previous position as the Deputy Finance Minister granted an undue benefit to his company through fees and charges on bonds issued by the state in which the added company was advisors to the bonds.
If a child says that the other parent or stepparent bad-mouthed you, focus on the child’s feelings.
The reduced debt to GDP ratio despite an increase in the overall debt figure,can be attributed to the projected GDP figure of GHS433.6 billion for the year 2021.
The incident happened between Jefisi and Bulu at about 7:50 pm when the MP was returning from a funeral he attended at Jefisi.
Belgium accounts for 32 deaths and 18 missing, according to its national crisis center.
Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person.
Recently, the Defence Minister, Dominic Nitiwul, warned illegal miners working at night that they do so at their own risk.
But he added that President Akufo-Addo immediately directed him to, as a matter of urgency, ensure the road is constructed.
As a result, many of them suffer from anxiety and depression.
The first step to ending the silent treatment is to recognize it for what it is—a tactic that, at best, works only short-term.
Do research or consult your doctor to learn about the benefits of the various substances chanced upon in foods.
When you shake hands with somebody, you must look him in the eye.
Kids who bully have an air of superiority that is often a mask to cover up deep hurt and a feeling of inadequacy
That may be the case if you handle most of your transactions by credit or debit card, Internet purchasing, and electronic banking.
The pandemic has pushed 1.38 million people into extreme poverty in Madagascar, according to the World Bank.
But young ones “are smart enough to see through the exaggeration and conclude that you do not really mean what you say
Sometimes when you’re lonely you keep checking your phone to see if any of your friends have sent you a message. And when you’re already feeling lonely and you notice that no one has tried to contact you, that can make you feel even worse
Do I speak positively and appreciatively about others, or do I belittle them?
The more you try to gain control, the less control you may end up having.
Of course, the advertising industry has been all too eager to exploit this hungry consumer market.
The Committee however exonerated Referee George Mawuli Vormawah for his performance in the Ghana Premier League match between Berekum Chelsea and WAFA.
The court order instructed members of the Association “to comply with the procedure provided under the Labour Act for resolving their dispute with their employer.”
A me-first mentality also exists in many homes.
All are entitled to equal protection against any discrimination in violation of this Declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination.
Explain, too, that a person with a balanced view of himself does not feel the need to broadcast his abilities to others.
Chelsea were unimpressive in defeat at Wembley on Sunday, but Willian says the team will need time to adapt to Sarri's new way of working.
He was speaking on the topic‘Cashless Economy with Opportunities in Business and Commerce‘.
Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country.
Each accomplishment, no matter how small, was celebrated; each indiscretion, no matter how large, was overlooked.
The complaint has also featured prominently lately in the the reports of external examiners.
An oxygen concentrator is a device that concentrates the oxygen from a gas supply by selectively removing nitrogen to supply an oxygen-enriched gas stream.
Loneliness can stem from insecurities. It’s hard to reach out and be open to friendships when you don’t feel that you are worth another person’s interest
Dr. Nikhil Sharma from the District hospital Himachal Pradesh, stated: “Some angels from Africa are assisting to save lives in far off India and we will ever remain grateful to them for this kind gesture.”
Accept each other as you are, and respect what is different about your mate. To illustrate: Your eyes work differently than your ears; yet they cooperate so you can cross the road safely.
Confining him may only make him want to escape; constantly criticizing his friends might only increase their appeal; eavesdropping could compel him to find ways to communicate with his friends behind your back.
he added Parliament will directly engage them on the drafting of amendments to laws that affect their operations in order to ensure that their concerns are fully addressed.
You and a member of the opposite sex are attracted to each other.
Whether you take a short, local trip or a major vacation to another country, travel can help you relax
“As many more lawyers are trained, it is my hope that, indeed, much more of them will join the public sector to enhance the quality of legal service delivery in the sector.
Meanwhile, Executive Director of Child Rights International, Bright Appiah believes the ruling ordering Achimota School to admit two Rastafarian students is still in force despite the institution’s decision to contest it.“Once a ruling has been given, all the things that are required for the fulfilment of that ruling,
“I will get the relevant committees to look at the specific laws in question and work with you to address the concerns,” he added.
Some issues may be relatively easy to settle.
So be sure your intentions are honorable
The man and his wife helped each other.
When your mate speaks, try to understand his or her feelings.
We blazed the trail for participatory democracy and I am confident that out of the ashes of this legal setback, we will mobilize and rekindle the struggle for a better democratic Ghana.”
How is this possible? The secret is in the horse’s legs.
Meanwhile, Frank AnnohDompreh has been nominated to Chair the Permanent Committee of Rural Economy, Agriculture, Natural Resources and Environment of the Pan – African Parliament.
Have you begun studying English?
The Supreme Court’s order followed an application by the AG, maintaining that the state had fulfilled all financial obligations to NDK with regard to certain payments and interests based on the court’s order.
A woman has been rescued after being swept down a street in central China amid extreme flooding.
The tone in which a discussion begins is often the tone in which it ends.
We must pay attention to the fact that no nation claimed sovereignty over this region.
“By necessity is meant the assertion that conduct promotes some value higher than the value of literal compliance with the law”
Kwabena reads the New York Times.
Each accomplishment, no matter how small, was celebrated; each indiscretion, no matter how large, was overlooked.
“Kumasi has been changing and growing very well.
It seems that no one knew the truth.
Mr. Suleymana outlined some efficiency measures being rolled out to up the game in service delivery.
“Investigation so far has revealed that the above-named suspects perpetrated that crime.”
“So we are praying to the government to come to our aid”
I had to change clothes because what I was wearing wasn't appropriate for the situation.
According to the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology, a dog “can detect certain compounds at parts per trillion.
Are you afraid of me?
The Chief of Tinjase, Ubor Mamunin II, lauded Mr. Bless for initiating the school projects.
I had no other way of contacting you, so I came here in person.
Dr. Adjei emphasized the need for intense collaboration between GHS, ZGL and the communities.
But that approach can deprive your body of the very nutrients it needs.
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality nor denied the right to change his nationality.
Financial analysts on GBC's Current Affairs Programme ‘Talking point’ have urged the Central Bank to put in place strict directives and measures to prevent recurrence of liquidation in the financial sector.
The students did so well and instead [of] commending them, you look at these young men and women and tell them that they cheated”
Sometimes when you’re lonely you keep checking your phone to see if any of your friends have sent you a message. And when you’re already feeling lonely and you notice that no one has tried to contact you, that can make you feel even worse
he added Parliament will directly engage them on the drafting of amendments to laws that affect their operations in order to ensure that their concerns are fully addressed.
The Bank of Ghana In the previous year reported that 38.5 million people have mobile money accounts while 17.1 million of these accounts are classified as active translating to about GH₵569 billion worth in transactions.
He has advised Ghanaians to embrace this measure when its implementation begins.
The chanced uponation observes that continuous challenge girls face to access accurate information on how to observe menstrual hygiene in addition to high cost of menstrual pads, as factors impeding adherence to menstrual hygiene
A child who learns to perform humble tasks at home is more likely to work well with others as an adult
Mmɛtɛɛmma Akofoɔ no brɛɛ mu yie ɔfa a ɛdi kan no mu na wɔtwɛnkɔsii simma 51 mu ansa na wɔnyaa kwan tetee mu firi Fabeo Gama atoprɛko (penalty) bi a ɔtu de too atena mu.
Mr. Bless told the Daily Graphic in an interview that the projects were meant to facilitate teaching and learning in the school.
combat the debt, not each other. A husband named Fiifi describes how he and his wife worked together: “We viewed our debt as a mutual enemy.”
I thought you said you never went out drinking.
Sometimes it means that you simply need to let go of a matter, for your own well-being and that of your marriage.
He further stated that “For us at the Ghana Library Authority, this recognition underscores the impact we have made in the last few years in transforming public library service to be responsive to the life-long learning needs of our citizens.”
With the ever-changing face of retail business across the world, there have been calls for business in Ghana to accordingly adapt, especially with respect to e-commerce.
This is what he added in September 2018 to the Ghana Bar Association gathered in conference;
Prof. Galaa conferred a full junior membership on the students and advised them sign the Matriculation Register, saying: “You should note that failure to sign the Register implies that you would forfeit the admission into this University for this academic year.
Men tend to think in terms of solutions. That is understandable because fixing things makes a man feel useful.
He further stated that “For us at the Ghana Library Authority, this recognition underscores the impact we have made in the last few years in transforming public library service to be responsive to the life-long learning needs of our citizens.”
On my way home, I fell asleep on the train and rode past my station.
MASLOC still resorts to the old system of applications coupled with a direct human interface in dealing with applicants and loan beneficiaries.
Now most girls absent themselves from school during the period of menstruation.
That’s what Efua 17, decided to do.
A 22-year old boy identified as Akwesi Mensah has stabbed his father to death at Assin Manso in the Assin South District in the Central Region.
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property.
To this end, the scheme will ensure financial sustainability of the scheme through innovative efficiency measures which include: Proposed additional funding sources; digitization of membership registrations and renewals; rolling out electronic-claim nationwide; strengthening quality assurance and financial auditing for improved accountability to the public as well as the review of the current law to introduce measures that allows stiffer sanctions to reduce fraud and other malfeasance to serve asa deterrent to criminal minds.
Proteins can help your body combat infection and also build and repair damaged tissues.
When we travel, we can easily forget about our stressors and recharge.
The Porcupine Warriors did endure a tough first half and had to wait till the 51st minute before breaking the deadlock through a Fabio Gama penalty.
The ceremony took place at the Academic Enclave near the University of Ghana Business School.
So do not hesitate to apologize, thinking that the passing of time will cover over the offense.
Perhaps they simply love being with a special friend of the opposite sex, without any intention of marriage.
We are forming this corporation, and will be forming partnerships with anybody who comes, a joint venture, to build an integrated bauxite and aluminium industry.
I have to go shopping.
The woman, whose narration in the 2 minutes 5 seconds audio did not seem coherent, erroneously referred to Asante Bediatuo as the President’s was speakingsman.
If you don’t have meaningful relationships, online friends are as good to you as lifeless figurines.
You might have acquired valuable social skills when you were single, and they might have improved while you were dating.
For example, researcher Jeffrey Dew chanced upon that couples in debt spend less time together, have more combats, and are less excited.
The residents can now heave a sigh to relief as wholly-owned Ghanaian company has set up an e-commerce business Centre at Kumasi City Mall to relief customers and business owners of the stress they go through on a regular basis.
I can't tell you how much I've been looking forward to your visit.
The current system is a rip-off
Your teenager makes a request, perhaps for a later curfew. You immediately refuse it.
I want to experience and I want to drive on the roads.
Attractive as these arguments are, the lived reality is one of genuine challenges to regulation and enforcement.
The boy lost his ear in a street combat.
According to him, the application of larvicide is crucial in combating the development state of the vector. He added that “it will enable us to reduce the population of mosquitoes.”
Achimota School has backed down on a decision to freeze the court order to admit the two Rastafarians boys.
The Ghana Armed Forces (GAF) has expressed concern about the high number of excavators parked in mining communities.
It was not till this morning that it stopped raining.
The first week of the 2021 Citi Business Festival, is focusing on the digital economy – Building a cashless society and the opportunities for business and job creation.
Your son received a traffic ticket? Pay the fine for him. A failed romance? Lay all the blame on the other person.
The new GDP figure represents an increase of about 13% over the GDP figure for 2020 which stood at GHS383.3 billion.
After one year of the launch of the project, what are the authorities waiting to be fixed in order to make the ICT System fully operational?
And saying, perhaps with a tinge of sarcasm, “I’m sorry that you’re so sensitive about this” is not an apology at all! Accept responsibility for your actions and acknowledge the hurt your partner feels, whether you believe that the hurt is warranted or not.
he added: “The foreigners have taken over our market that is why GUTA is complaining, they have taken over all across the country but as it is now, Kasoa is the strongest area for these foreigners.
Even if they are incompatible, having all aspects of the matter on paper will help you and your partner to see the issue more clearly.
The UN estimates that overall, 75% of people in need in Tigray are now reachable; in May, this figure was only 30%.
Before, I cooked pumpkin in a very simple way, and my children didn’t like it at all.
As a result, the crocodile can distinguish between food and debris in its mouth.
Meanwhile, Executive Director of Child Rights International, Bright Appiah believes the ruling ordering Achimota School to admit two Rastafarian students is still in force despite the institution’s decision to contest it.“Once a ruling has been given, all the things that are required for the fulfilment of that ruling,
She might conclude that she has lost her knack, so why try to improve?
Instead, pinpoint where they agree. To help you find common ground, try this
the reports said heavy rains had triggered the landslide at Wangzongdian village in Henan province.
Essel is quite good at cooking.
Hematologists are doctors who have trained in blood diseases.
Later I looked back and realized how wrong it was to do that!
The next time your mate begins speaking to you, resist the urge to respond immediately.
You can learn. First, though, consider why a husband and wife may find it so difficult to forgive each other.
President Akufo-Addo, in response to the complaints, has asked those persons to go to court.
He stated that they heard the sound of the gun and rushed out to figure out what it was only to find their colleague had been killed.
At least three of the people pulled out of the wreckage have been confirmed dead, including a victim believed to be 10 years old.
The enumeration of persons in households and long-stay institutions would be enumerated from 28th June to 11th July, 2021.
Where I come from, people tend to be tactless. My blunt way of expressing myself often upset my wife. I had to learn to be more gentle.
This is the mistake that unfortunately, the allied health professionals are making.”
Surface dressing cost $300,000- $9000,000 per km (depending on the number of seals and base material).
I remember very clearly that he threw two pistols into the river.
Some partners use silence as a form of revenge.
In effect, she is saying, “You hurt me, so I am going to hurt you back.”
In fact, we later worked together on school plays and field trips.
The man I had always relied on had become helpless
We had built our home with love, and I couldn’t bear the thought of losing it. Joe and I fought many times about how we would deal with our debt
Many people like to talk more than they like to listen. Are you one of them?
I started to make healthy swaps, one per day. For example, instead of eating a candy bar, I ate an apple. Before long I was making many healthy swaps each day
They have, however, not been able to execute the bail bond.
Its tenets seemed plausible: If a little praise is good for kids, a lot of praise is better.
The Domestic Violence and Victim Support Unit (DOVVSU) of the Kasoa Divisional Police Command, has
picked up a 52-year-old man for allegedly defiling his 10-year-old step-daughter at Kakraba in the Central
Region.
Each of you make a two-column list. In the first column, write down which aspects of the issue you feel most strongly about. In the second column, list the aspects on which you feel that you could compromise.
This hall holds two thousand people.
Dr. Adjei explained that LSM was basically to control the vector that carries the malaria parasite.
If handled in the right manner this comes after the Governing Board of the Achimota School announced its decision to appeal the ruling by the Human Right Division of the Accra High Court, ordering it to admit the two teenagers
Unlimited texting is no guarantee that you will never be lonely
In fact, for the business community, we are trying to pitch to them on their posture of sales.
One of their aims is to create electrodes for brain surgery that are stiff enough to be placed in precisely the right spot but that will also then soften.
Marriage shall be entered into only with the free and total consent of the intending partners.
President Akufo-Addo, in response to the complaints, has asked those persons to go to court.
The Indian High Commissioner to Ghana, H.E Sugandh Rajaram, is scheduled to pay an official visit to Yendi on 25th May 2021 as part of his diplomatic overtures to strengthen ties between India and the people of Yendi.
As a parent, examine your own attitude toward money and the things it can buy.
Travel lowers stress
The Education Minister, Dr. Yaw Osei Adutwum was earlier today outraged over what he termed as the 'unilateral position' by the Governing Board of Achimota school to appeal the High Court Order.
Following the drastic surge of Covid-19 cases in India this month, some Ghanaians, have in a kind gesture of brotherliness, provided a donation of 150 medical grade oxygen concentrators to needy hospitals in that country.
In a similar way, people who are starved for friends could look for friendship in all the wrong places
You probably know that an unbalanced diet can damage your health.
Vice President Bawumia indicated that a new fiscal regime similar to the one prevailing in the oil sector
would soon be introduced in the mining sector.
Mr Amoako-Attah indicated that the government is seriously constructing and fixing deplorable roads across the country.
The Committee also handed Referee Selorm Kpormegbe a six-match suspension for his inability to whistle when an attacker was recklessly fouled in the Ghana Premier League match between Karela FC and Bechem United FC.
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation.
Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in which the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration can be fully realized.
But in a reaction to the claims on Good Evening Ghana on Metro TV on Tuesday, Dr. Adutwum pleaded with his colleague to be mindful of her utterances, particularly on claims that she cannot substantiate.
She may even shy away from new challenges, fearing that she will fail.
“I, thus, consider it necessary to put out this statement because the allegations made in the audio recording have no truth, are pure fabrications, and are cruel with the sole aim of courting public disaffection for me as a senior official of this government.”
Its tenets seemed plausible: If a little praise is good for kids, a lot of praise is better.
According to them, this was just a ruse aimed at extending the term of office of Roger Nkodo Dang
"Without doubt, we like this style of play, all the players," he added. "We have to do all we can to keep improving.
It comes after the gender minister in a solidarity message on the commemoration of the 2021 Menstrual Hygiene Day stated her intent to accelerate the process to eliminate tax on sanitary pads.
But then your partner senses that something is wrong and begins to probe.
The husband objects. “You’re married to me, not to your parents,” he says.
Dr. Samuel Thomas, an India physician, from a community hospital of Tamil Nadu State, expressed his gratitude to Ghanaians for the timely donation, which according to him, would go a long way in treating critically ill patients.
They also insist that until the disputed appointments in question are reversed, they will not return to work.
They need to learn, practice, and refine chosen skills carefully.
When a building being constructed collapses and lives are lost, the cause can, in many cases, be traced to someone or some people breaking the law, or cutting corners.
The Assembly Member should rather volunteer to bring the police if the government is not willing to bring police around here.
Toru did whatever his family asked, but he did not consult with me. I asked him, ‘Who is more important to you, your mother or me?
So what are you waiting for?
From using technology to support remote learning to promoting information skills, literacy and reading, this is a great example of the difference a quality library can make,” they stated.
According to him, “We want to restructure the economy and move it from being a mere producer and exporter of raw materials to one that places much greater emphasis on value addition activities.
He took notice efforts at addressing the crime situation in the area have been unsuccessful.
It's impossible for the bird to escape from the trap.
Managing Director of GCB Bank, John Kofi Adomakoh is promising a leadership that will transform the bank as the dominant player in the Ghanaian banking industry.
The orphan met up with his two sisters when he was five years old.
Haruna Iddrisu insists that he wants President Akufo-Addo to lead the country by the constitution
He mentioned that aside the building the capacity of participants, the Seeds for the Future trains participants to become problem solvers and also inspires entrepreneurship.
the reports indicated that Jay Dordorye, [26 years] the boyfriend of the deceased, reportedly inflicted knife wounds on Harriet Kafui Ahiati (deceased) and attempted to commit suicide.
He was, however, quick to add that there are a lot of serious minded supervisors in the university community and urged them to keep up.
The census was originally scheduled for 2020, but will now take place from the 27th of June 2021.
This, the statement said, will constitute the largest road project in Ghana’s history. The statement thus provided details of how much is spent per kilometre of road.
Indeed, his tolerance for political debate was on show in the nearly two years of NDC protests against the EC and then he quietly set a great record by supporting the entire election budget from Government resources.
Kwabena reads the New York Times.
You regularly go out with a certain member of the opposite sex. Are you dating?
Lt-Gen Ibrahim Attahiru, was killed after a military Beachcraft 350 aircraft crashed in the north-western state of Kaduna on Friday, May 21, 2021.
The Akuapem North Municipal Director of Education has assured students of the Akropong School for the blind that the concerns about their living conditions and treatment meted out to them by their headmistress will be addressed. The students accused the headmistress Mahela Narh of mismanagement leading to gradual collapse of the school and poor academics
The Vice Chancellor expressed the sentiments in a speech read for him by the Principal of the Wa Campus of UDS, Prof. Sylvester Z. Galaa at the matriculation of graduate students pursuing sandwich programs in Wa.
A similar incident occurred in October 2020 where five persons were reported dead after they were trapped in a mining pit in the same district.
A couple should trust each other and work together when deciding how money will be spent.
In his estimation, it will take Ghana just like any other African country almost two decades to fully operate a cashless economy.
If my son is not responsible enough to keep his room clean, how will he maintain an apartment?”
“Whether teachers, doctors, students, drivers, businessmen and women or government employees – each of them contributed to the best of their abilities,” one of them told the Ghana News Agency.
Dr. Adjei emphasized the need for intense collaboration between GHS, ZGL and the communities.
If we don’t get police protection; we cannot feel safe.”
If you were living at home before you got married, you may be new to the world of paying bills and sharing expenses.
But striving for wealth does not bring contentment.
The MP urged chiefs and opinion leaders in the area to support initiatives that would facilitate teaching and learning in schools.
This is lower than the debt to GDP ratio of 76.1% recorded at the end of 2020 according to data from the Central Bank.
If handled in the right manner this comes after the Governing Board of the Achimota School announced its decision to appeal the ruling by the Human Right Division of the Accra High Court, ordering it to admit the two teenagers
Buy an item only if you need it, not just because it is on sale.
Defending champions of the MTN FA Cup, Asante Kotoko had no problems in the round of 64 dispatching BYFA 2-0.
Mr. Mahama says even though he is disappointed by the verdict of the apex court on the Election Petition, he is “legally bound” to accept it.
He assured that neither himself nor the NDC will do anything against the collective interest of the nation.
The new prices affect all forms of transport including Inter-city (trotro), Intercity (long distance) and shared taxis
Whatever the cause, frequent arguing can adversely affect your health and can even be a predictor of eventual divorce. How, then, can you stop arguing?
When the President launched the ambulances In the previous year, there were about 307 of them, and we were mandated, as District Chief Executives, to find places for them
It was part of the government’s plan to boost the military’s efficiency in combating a more than decade-long jihadist insurgency.
The entire Law Village Project, according to the President, will cost about US$55 million.
Really, forgiving does not imply any of the foregoing.
Asphalt overlay costs about $200,000 -$250,000.
The success of your future relationships will depend on your ability to communicate and negotiate, and there’s no better place to cultivate such skills than within your family.
Despite existing infrastructural deficit, government has made it a point to allow all qualified students to make it to Senior High school.
In the midst of COVID-19, under Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, these students courageously sat for the exam and obtained a score of 66.05%.
"This is a new era, with a new manager and I've had a very good conversation with him, so I hope we can enjoy a lot of victories."
In all, there are 39 deputy ministers appointed under 24 portfolios and one Minister of State.
When I’m out and let myself go hungry, I tend to make poor food choices.
The Ministry of Finance and the European Investment Bank have signed an agreement for the provision of a one hundred- and seventy-million-euro (€170 million) facility for the establishment of a new national bank, the Development Bank Ghana (DBG).
The ceremony took place at the Academic Enclave near the University of Ghana Business School.
A look at your bank statements and bills reveals that your money is slipping away like sand that slips through your fingers.
A bulletproof vest was also retrieved from the suspects upon a search of their car. The police say their investigations indicate that the suspects were recruited by Yepalisi Naa, Alhaji Aminu Ayuba, to escort a newly installed chief from Banvim to the Bagliga community.
This is not any personal attack against her. I am speaking to the facts.”
Relationships with those outside your household can challenge your stepfamily.
“The suspects are Mustapha Adams 37, Ibrahim Adamu 39, Aseidu Ona (Al’as L.ion) 33 and Mohammed Abubakar 33.
I wasn't busy today.
The facts, as narrated by prosecution, are that Intelligence Agencies picked up information sometime in April, this year, that the accused persons, armed with weapons, were illegally mining at Asankragua in the Western Region.
In fact, we work with retailors on several things to make pricing very creative because most retailors, the reason some items are expensive is because, the thing doesn’t move as often as it should.
For example, some parents have been unduly influenced by the self-esteem movement that has become popular in recent decades.
They are to reach the Clerk of the Committee not later than Monday, 24th May, through the address:
The Clerk, Appointments Committee, Parliament House, Accra, attentioned to Mrs. Rosemary Sarkodie.
These are allied health professionals.
Robots are not nearly as agile as animals,” says researcher Thomas Libby, “so anything that can make a robot more stable is an advancement.
Everyone charged with a penal offence has the right to be presumed innocent until proved guilty according to law in a public trial at which he has had all the guarantees necessary for his defence.
Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security and is entitled to realization, through national effort and international co-operation and in accordance with the organization and resources of each State, of the economic, social and cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his personality.
Speaking to Citi News, the National President of the group, Zakariah Mohammed, says the government has failed to adequately address their concerns.
To her, it is out of place for women to think they have to sacrifice their family for their career or vice versa.
When you feel stressed or “down,” traveling can make you happier and help you improve your life in so many ways.
If your attempts at compromise only escalate into heated arguments, it may be that you and your partner are focusing too much on where your views differ.
Next, determine the order in which you will tackle all your debts.
The sun is shining brightly.
At a press briefing in Accra on Wednesday, Dominic Nitiwul said the military has been equipped to deal with such recalcitrant miners.
You could passively surrender to your partner’s wishes.
Don't let this codebook fall into enemy hands.
Melody Owusu was rushed to Margret Marquart Catholic Hospital in Kpando for medical attention.
Teach your children to say “thank you,” not just with words but with genuine appreciation.
I liked going out, but she liked staying home.”
I played video games after I finished my homework.
Speaking to the media at a news conference, the Public Relations Officer of the Ashante Regional Police Command, ASP Godwin Ahianyo, called on the public to assist them to arrest the culprits.
The President of PEF, Nana Osei Bonsu, who led the delegation, said it was time for the legislature to create a periodic dialogue platform where issues affecting the private sector could be discussed with members of the House.
Are you afraid of me?
Siblings have been called “the best worst friends you’ll ever have.” You love them, and they love you​—but sometimes you just can’t seem to get along.
he added the media must play a role in reminding Ghanaians about the devasting impact the pandemic has had on the world economy and the need to work with the government in finding solutions.
Prior to the rate being reduced to 14.5% it had been maintained at 16% for some time.
The company believes the new intervention will serve as an avenue to make the lives of both business owners and customers much easier.
COVID-19 cost us [Ghana] about GHS21 billion.
Another option is to pay off smaller balances first, since receiving fewer bills each month will likely boost your morale.
One of the robbers manned the entrance, as the other demanded money after shooting thrice into the roof of the building, said one of the workers.
Whether on the phone or face-to-face, in the open or in secret, if you and a friend of the opposite sex have a special romantic understanding and communicate regularly, it’s dating.
In this piece, correspondent Emmanuel Mensah-Abludo says the students at the Wa campus are pursuing their courses at the Faculty of Integrated Development Studies, School of Business and Law as well as the Faculty of Planning and Land Management.
How much time do you spend cleaning your house?
Emphasize that serving others is a privilege.
The Assembly Member should rather volunteer to bring the police if the government is not willing to bring police around here.
My schoolmates started to avoid me
“We are now entering into the rainy season and as we speak a lot of construction has stalled.
As soon as he finished his work, he went home.
So what are you waiting for?
Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers.
Dogs can even be trained to detect explosives and illegal drugs.
“The armed men in the process killed a customer who was later identified as Collins Dapaah Hayford aged 43.
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo released his list of deputy ministers on April 21, 2021
There’s another reason why waiting is wise.
Work is expected to be completed in 10 months.
Of course, a temporary time-out can give a couple the opportunity to let emotions cool when an argument is getting out of hand.
The Ambulance Service consequently dispatched some officers to look into the matter.
Some just assume that they will be promoted quickly, even without mastering their trade.
Even though she did not want to disappoint her client, she had to sacrifice the client for her daughter.
Yet, this is the President who has opened up the most space in the political governance arena.
Doing so is a primary way to develop maturity.
A husband may at first exercise his headship clumsily, or a wife may be unaccustomed to making tactful suggestions.
The tone in which a discussion begins with is often the tone in which it ends.
For example, suppose your son is showing a tendency to brag. Uncorrected, he could become conceited and begin to alienate others.
Does Kwabena know what to do with this?
He took notice that the establishment of the Bank is in line with the objectives of the European Union, and will help develop Ghana’s private sector, agri-business, manufacturing and ICT initiatives.
The MP cut the sod last Saturday, May 23, for work to begin on the GH¢800,000 projects.
Having benefited from such a facility, the present initiative serves as a kind gesture of gratitude from Ghanaians towards India.
It is easy to overspend when you cannot see the money leaving your wallet or purse.
The menstrual cup be used for the monthly menstrual cycle for a maximum of 10 years”.
I can't feel at home in a hotel.
With our goodwill, The Office of the Special Prosecutor (OSP) will perhaps be the most enduring legacy of President Akufo-Addo, rivalling the mass spread of literacy that the educational reforms will bring.
This kind gesture makes Ghana the first African country to have undertaken such an initiative.
Make eye contact and smile. Avoid sighing, drooping your shoulders, or rolling your eyes.
Promotion of the rule of law is at the heart of this Association’s vocation. Its members must be the natural champions of a law-based state, whose establishments should be solid enough to sanction effectively vigilantism, bank frauds, cyber frauds, sharp practice, illegal mining, unlawful exports of fertilisers and oil products, identity thefts, stealing of public funds, bribery and corruption, criminal cartels, and criminal behaviour in general.
There are many department stores and supermarkets in Shinjuku.
The Headmistress also said the students bed were the excess beds which were packed under the mercy of the weather.
Certain fats—in the right amount—can lower your risk of heart disease and keep you feeling your best.
he added this has become necessary to improve access to fresh water bodies for irrigated farming and
other agricultural purposes.
Both partners should feel that they have been heard and have had a part in the decision-making process.
If they have seized any gold they will declare it.
We will not wait for you to go and say you have not made any profit out of the 1000 so you will not pay us anything.
When you travel, you have plenty of time to think about whether or not you’re truly excited with your life.
The vision of GCB Bank is “to be the leading bank in all our markets”, whilst its mission is to provide first class banking solutions for our customers and value for all stakeholders.
He assured that neither himself nor the NDC will do anything against the collective interest of the nation.
The President continued, “with the 2021/2022 academic year fast approaching, the school is, again, faced with limited and overstretched facilities, hence the added importance of this project”.
Experts agree that the relationship with the child’s other parent can become a tough, divisive issue for a stepfamily.
Prof. Koffi has thus warned such supervisors that his administration will not tolerate the “attitude”.
He mentioned that aside the building the capacity of participants, the Seeds for the Future trains participants to become problem solvers and also inspires entrepreneurship.
So we will call on the Bank of Ghana or the government to find a way to introduce a base cap or make some compelling arrangements that will make the banks come along,” he added.
So explain to your child that boasting makes him look bad and that it could set him up for embarrassment.
Those of us who came here were asked to write our names and form the queue so that we will be served in that order.
But praising children simply to make them feel good may cause them to develop a distorted view of themselves.
Abena is a beautiful woman.
Children who work through their problems build resilience and self-confidence—assets they might lack if someone was constantly rescuing them.
Do you plan to continue working until 10:00?
“Many young ones who date break up with each other a week or two later,” says a girl named Ama.
The Ellembelle District Census Officer, Mr Isaac Polley, has expressed worry over how a section of the public was “playing politics” with the census exercise and called for a stop to the practice.
As a trade union organization that has for 75 years sought the protection and welfare of workers in the industry, it said it takes an uncompromising opposition to these worrying and preventable fatalities that are shedding the blood of innocent workers in atonement for the profiteering motives of these multinational corporations.
Later, when you meet the right person, you’ll be in a better position to build a solid relationship.
The Minority further tasked President Akufo-Addo and his appointees to handle the situation decisively in order to eradicate galamsey from the country and save the environment.
Dr. Nikhil Sharma from the District hospital Himachal Pradesh, stated: “Some angels from Africa are assisting to save lives in far off India and we will ever remain grateful to them for this kind gesture.”
Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country.
Rev. Akwaa also attributed the disturbing situation which has negative consequences on children to lack of endurance and the combating spirit on the part of couples to protect their marriage or relationship despite the odds.
Defending champions of the MTN FA Cup, Asante Kotoko had no problems in the round of 64 dispatching BYFA 2-0.
In some cases, children are being raised in materialistic families.
He mentioned that aside the building the capacity of participants, the Seeds for the Future trains participants to become problem solvers and also inspires entrepreneurship.
According to him, all other contrary claims are not true and should be disregarded.
Around 6:30 in the evening, Kwesi would’ve finished his daily rounds/roaming and gotten back to where he sleeps
Miss Tieku revealed that the NGO is working assiduously in educating girls on how to prepare for menstruation, how to go through menstrual hygiene and how to properly dispose off the waste.
If you start with harsh words, the chances of reaching a peaceful compromise are slim.
So far as the laboratory space has different professionals, the headship can be based on competence, so we cannot sit here and say that the laboratory should be for laboratory scientists alone.
Seize opportunities to make your mate rejoice during your first year of marriage.
What accounts for the dog’s superior sense of smell?
Do you think there is another answer to this difficult problem?
The panel included Justice Jones Dotse, Justice Paul Baffoe-Bonnie, Justice Nene Amegatcher and Justice Sule Gbedegbe (retired)
Our lawyers will say we have given them an invitation to treat.
Now the President is combating his own men.
Former President John Mahama has withdrawn his acceptance of the African Union’s appointment as its High Representative for Somalia.
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation.
I had extremes of very-high-calorie binge days and very-low-calorie strict days. Finally, I decided to stop counting calories, to be careful not to overeat, and to stop eating when I was full. It took time, but now I have a balanced diet.”
he added that he would let us know later about the results of the examination.
"They’ve even brought a regional patrol team to augment what we have but the situation is still there.
Today, with the right techniques, one root alone is enough to feed the family.
If you work hard to avoid repeating the same mistake, you will give your partner confidence that your apology was genuine.
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality nor denied the right to change his nationality.
Mr. Amar Deep S. Hari, the Chief Executive Officer of IPMC, who commissioned the items, on a virtual platform for distribution from India’s famous mosque, Dargah Nizamuddin in New Delhi, India, expressed his gratitude to Ghanaians for this assistance.
They also insist that until the disputed appointments in question are reversed, they will not return to work.
For example, suppose a husband makes weekend plans without consulting his wife.
Mr. Mahama says even though he is disappointed by the verdict of the apex court on the Election Petition, he is “legally bound” to accept it.
You don’t have to agree with everything your partner says or believes, but you have to be honestly open to considering his or her position
When you upset your wife by the way you exercise or fail to exercise your headship, ask her how you can improve, and then write the suggestion down.
Why do you have to wait to date?
When it comes to dancing, nobody can move like Michael Jackson.
We will not wait for you to go and say you have not made any profit out of the 1000 so you will not pay us anything.
Dr. Adjei emphasized the need for intense collaboration between GHS, ZGL and the communities.
Also, in November 2020, an illegal small-scale mining pit in the outskirts of Ayanfuri collapsed and trapped eight persons between the ages of 24 and 35 years.
Indeed, his tolerance for political debate was on show in the nearly two years of NDC protests against the EC and then he quietly set a great record by supporting the entire election budget from Government resources.
Some expatriates of other countries in Ghana also participated in the noble cause.
Limit your child’s use of social media.
I would say that the gap between the policy rate and interest rates in still high.
I got it on the 18th of June 2020.
For example, “I feel slighted when you make plans without consulting me first” is much more likely to elicit a positive response than “That is just like you—always making plans without consulting me!
Aduana Stars beat Eleven Wonders courtesy a goal from Isaac Kwain.
Adding that,"while the Board remains committed to the appeal against the High Court ruling, it will withdraw the application for a stay of execution pending the determination of the appeal by a higher court."
“I know there are some who believe that the ongoing exercise of ridding our water bodies and forest zones of harmful equipment and machinery is unlawful and, in some cases, too harsh.”
You can’t always blame others for your loneliness. Sometimes you are the one who has separated yourself. So do what you can to include yourself again. If that doesn’t work, try making new friends​—perhaps with some you haven’t tried to make friends with before
Sanitary towels are not luxury items. But stakeholders say taxes levied on the products claws back on the gains that the country has made in promoting girl child education
“We will be law-abiding and do nothing to compromise the stability of the country.
Kofi George, a resident who narrated the incident to Citi News said: 
“I was told, the gentleman traced the girlfriend to the new boyfriend’s room. So he killed the girl through the trap door, but fortunately, the girl survived, but the bullet hit her on the left breast. The man thought the lady was dead, so he then reloaded the gun and killed himself, dying instantly.” This is happening few months after a 53-year-old man was killed and killed in the same community during a disagreement over palm wine.
You help your daughter to view a setback as just that, and not as a disaster.
White paint will brighten the room.
We should read as many books as possible.
Your curiosity turns to bitterness. You feel betrayed! It’s as if all your relationships have collapsed like a flimsy house of cards.
I care about my friends, but sometimes I don’t think that they care about me in return.
You probably know that an unbalanced diet can damage your health.
“This kind gesture is mainly to show that Ghanaians from Africa are thinking of our Indian brothers and sisters and keeping their well being in our prayers,” he added.
The President continued, “with the 2021/2022 academic year fast approaching, the school is, again, faced with limited and overstretched facilities, hence the added importance of this project”.
They are to reach the Clerk of the Committee not later than Monday, 24th May, through the address:
The Clerk, Appointments Committee, Parliament House, Accra, attentioned to Mrs. Rosemary Sarkodie.
This digitization journey takes some time, I know where GCB is coming from.
Justice Gifty Agyei Addo, the Presiding Judge, disagreed with the submissions of the Attorney General and granted all the reliefs seperately sought by the embattled students except the relief of compensation in the case of Tyrone Marhguy.
For a month, keep track of your eating habits. How often do you go to one of the extremes described above? What adjustments can you make to have a balanced diet?
It affects everyday life. It is about breaking rules and regulations in many aspects of our lives, and wanting to, and, indeed, circumventing the laws that are meant to guide our society.
If this is happening in your marriage, you can stop the pattern.
I called her up.
The man put the gun against his forehead and squeezed the trigger.
Some people eliminate one or more food groups from their diet, thinking that doing so will help them lose weight.
The best way to improve any skill is to consult an expert on the subject and then to apply the advice he gives.
he districts are Asokore Mampong, Asokwa, Ashanti Mampong Municipal, Kwabre East, Ejisu, Old Tafo, Manhyia North, Manhyia South, Atwima Mponua, Atwima Nwabiagya, Atwima Kwanwoma, Sekyere East, Kwadaso, Bosomtwe, Suame, Bekwai, Oforikrom and Offinso.
I discovered that my wife and I were less compatible than I thought.
In an interview with Citi News, the Executive Secretary of NLC, Ofosu Asamoah, urged the members to resume work ahead of the meeting.
Teach your children that there is value in serving others.
he added it was a national exercise and field officers were selected based on merit and not on political affiliation.
But young ones “are smart enough to see through the exaggeration and conclude that you do not really mean what you say
President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has allayed fears that, the double in track system will destroy the education system as being speculated by a cross section of the Public.
Dating is no trivial matter.
So i am calling on them as a matter of conscience to withdraw those companies immediately.”
With support from government, we are pulling all of these agencies together to come up with a model that works, that is transparent, that has the right corporate governance and that will seek to see the private sector growing.”
Proteins can help your body combat infection and also build and repair tissues.
There are some mines that are paying, but many are not paying sufficiently, relative to how much they are taking out of our country.”
Mr. Suleymana outlined some efficiency measures being rolled out to up the game in service delivery.
Is there an elevator?
It has to do with driving recklessly, and breaking all the traffic regulations and trying to bribe the police when you are pulled up. It has to do with not getting the proper permit to build a house, and it has to do with looking the other way when something wrong is going on.
“The suspects are Mustapha Adams 37, Ibrahim Adamu 39, Aseidu Ona 33 and Mohammed Abubakar 33.
Government’s commitment to leaving a lasting legacy in professional legal education in Ghana is absolute,” he added.
Yeboah was subsequently picked up and arraigned.
He is a known advocate of media rights, representing journalists in court, helping repeal criminal libel, passing Right to Information legislation and speaking to the Press regularly.
There has been a penchant for the total disregard for uncompleted projects in this country and we have seen one too many of these.
One key aspect of Ghana’s economy to have benefited from this digital transformation agenda is the Mobile Money Industry.
The nominee for Minister of State at the Finance Ministry, Charles Adu Boahen, has disclosed that the COVID-19 pandemic cost the country about GHS21 billion.
You could stubbornly insist until you get your way
“We want foreign investment, there is no doubt about that.
A development which led to the Acting Director and Management of the School taking a cue from the double-track system initiated in our Senior High Schools, to introduce a triple-track system,” he added.
I had hardly sat down on the bench when I chanced upon it had just been painted.
He stated that they heard the sound of the gun and rushed out to figure out what it was only to find their colleague had been killed.
I know that you're a teacher.
“We have a regime that we are implementing for the oil sector, and we want to implement the same
regime for the mining sector.
The University challenged those pursuing sandwich programs to make use of library facilities and electronic-resources at their disposal else, they will end up leaving the institution academically ignorant thereby not developing the critical analytical skills for situations.
Men should work.
