Ethiopia Tigray conflict: Rebels build on capture of capital
Rebel fighters in the Tigray region of Ethiopia are continuing to gain ground after recapturing the regional capital Mekelle from government forces.
The rebels have now entered the town of Shire, about 140km (90 miles) to the north-west, according to UN officials.
Eritrean troops backing the Ethiopian army had earlier abandoned the city.
The government has declared a ceasefire in the eight-month conflict, but the rebels have vowed to drive their "enemies" from Tigray.
The fighting between the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF) and government forces has left thousands of people dead.
More than two million have been displaced and 350,000 pushed towards famine.
The fighting began in November, when rebels rejected political reforms and captured army bases. 
Government forces captured Mekelle later that month.
There were scenes of jubilation in the streets of the capital on Tuesday, a day after the rebels retook the city following a rapid offensive. 
The central government has called a "humanitarian ceasefire" in the region.
Canada weather: Dozens dead as heatwave shatters records
Dozens have died in Canada as a temperatures across the southern Pacific Northwest continue to smash records.
Police in British Columbia say they have responded to over 60 sudden deaths since Monday, including many seniors.
They said the heatwave affecting the region was a contributing factor to the fatalities.
Temperatures in Lytton, British Columbia, soared to 47.9C (118.2F) on Monday, up from 46.6C (116F) on Sunday.
Before this week, temperatures in Canada had never passed 45C (113F).
"Check on your neighbours, check on family members, check on seniors you may know," said Royal Canadian Mounted Police Cpl Mike Kalanj, based in the Vancouver suburb of Burnaby.
"We are seeing this weather can be deadly for vulnerable members of our community, especially the elderly and those with underlying health issues. 
It is imperative we check on one another during this extreme heat."
Temperatures in the US cities of Portland and Seattle have reached the highest levels since record-keeping began in the 1940s.
Portland in Oregon hit 46.1C (115F) and Seattle 42.2C (108F), according to the US National Weather Service. 
The heat is intense enough to melt cables, shutting down the Portland Streetcar Service on Sunday.
England struck twice late on to end a 55-year wait for a knockout tie victory over Germany amid scenes of huge tension and elation at Wembley to reach the Euro 2020 quarter-finals.
Gareth Southgate's side battled hard to earn the statement victory that has so often eluded England, and it was their talisman of this tournament, Raheem Sterling, who made the decisive breakthrough.
Sterling, who scored the winners against Croatia and the Czech Republic in the group stage, steered in Luke Shaw's cross after 75 minutes to send England's fans, with more than 40,000 inside Wembley, into wild celebrations.
The win was secured with another moment of significance four minutes from time when captain Harry Kane, who had once again struggled to influence the game, headed in from substitute Jack Grealish's perfect delivery for his first goal of Euro 2020.
England were again thankful for the brilliance of Everton goalkeeper Jordan Pickford, who has yet to concede a goal in the tournament and saved crucially from Timo Werner and Kai Havertz in each half, while Thomas Muller missed a glorious chance to equalise before Kane struck.
England now face Ukraine in the quarter-finals in Rome on Saturday after they scored a last-minute winner in extra time to beat Sweden. 
It will be live on BBC One and BBC iPlayer.
China pressure 'undermining Australian universities', report says
Chinese pro-democracy students in Australia fear punishment for their family back home if they speak out on sensitive issues, a new report says.
Human Rights Watch found such students feel surveilled in Australia, leading many to self-censor in classrooms.
Academics teaching China courses in the country say they have also felt pressure to censor themselves.
The rights group said the perceived pressure was undermining the academic freedom of Australian universities.
Australia's higher education system is heavily reliant on fee-paying Chinese students, which accounted in pre-Covid times for about 40% of all international students in the country.
There are currently about 160,000 Chinese students are enrolled in Australian universities.
There has been growing concern about China's influence on local campuses in recent years, following a deterioration in relations between the two nations.
Human Rights Watch said it had interviewed nearly 50 students and academics in Australia and found an "atmosphere of fear" that had worsened in recent years.
Researchers said they had confirmed three cases where a student's activities in Australia had prompted police in China to visit or get in contact with their families there over their actions.
Miami building collapse: Letter in April warned of worsening damage
Residents of a Florida apartment building that collapsed last week received a letter in April warning of worsening structural damage.
The letter, obtained and reported by US media, was sent by the president of the apartment block's building association.
It said damage that was first reported in 2018 had "gotten significantly worse" and would soon "begin to multiply" without immediate repairs.
At least 11 people were killed and 150 more are still missing in the collapse.
The letter is the latest in a string of documents that have emerged providing evidence that the Champlain Towers South building in Surfside, north of Miami, had known structural issues.
Lawsuits are already being filed over the deadly disaster, with the latest accusing the building association of "reckless and negligent conduct".
The April letter, sent by the president of the Champlain Towers South Condominium Association, said that "observable damage" had gotten "significantly worse" and warned that "concrete deterioration is accelerating".
The letter also warned about roof damage, and estimated that fixing the building's problems would cost about $15m (£10.8m)
It follows reports about findings from a 2018 inspection that urged timely repairs after "major structural damage" was found, including "abundant cracking" in an underground parking garage.
Spanish school students stuck in hotel quarantine in Majorca
Students visiting from the mainland to celebrate the end of term are isolated in a hotel in Palma de Mallorca after testing positive for coronavirus, Spain, 28 June 2021
Spanish students at the Palma Bellver hotel in Majorca are protesting from their balconies after being forced to quarantine
"We are afraid, because they haven't told us how long we are going to be trapped here," says Lucía Cano, adding: "We were moved without our parents' consent."
Lucía, 17, is among around 200 Spanish students being held under police guard at the Palma Bellver hotel in Majorca, in Spain's Balearic Islands, after an outbreak of more than 1,000 cases of Covid-19 were linked to end-of-year trips by celebrating school students.
Last week, several students attempted to leave the island, but most were stopped by police at the airport and taken to the hotel for quarantine.
Three managed to make it back to the mainland and authorities have issued search warrants for their detention, local media report.
Police are now monitoring the four-star Palma Bellver hotel with 24-hour surveillance.
A student reacts from a balcony at Palma Bellver in Palma de Mallorca, Balearic Islands, Spain, 28 June 2021
Infections linked to the Majorca outbreak account for about 5% of new cases recorded in the past week, the head of Spain's public health body said on Tuesday.
Euro 2020: England beat Germany - Harry Kane targets return to Wembley final
Captain Harry Kane believes "there isn't anything bigger" than England's 2-0 win against Germany and says the players have a vision of where they want to go after reaching the Euro 2020 quarter-finals.
Kane scored England's second after Raheem Sterling had opened the scoring.
It is England's first win in a knockout tie against Germany at a major tournament since the 1966 World Cup.
"Any team will look at us and know that we're dangerous," said Kane, 27.
England will next face Ukraine in Rome on Saturday for a place in the semi-finals, with the game live on BBC One and BBC iPlayer.
England end 55-year wait for knockout win over Germany
In-form Sterling has scored three of England's goals in Euro 2020 but in contrast Kane's strike came after failing to score in the group stage then struggling to make an impact for much of Tuesday's encounter in front of 40,000 fans at Wembley.
Kane's goal means he has joined Wayne Rooney on seven goals in major tournaments for England, behind only Gary Lineker (10) and Alan Shearer (nine).
"They both have to prove people wrong all the time and Raheem has been immense for us over a period," added England manager Gareth Southgate.
Wimbledon 2021: Serena Williams retires injured against Aliaksandra Sasnovich
American great Serena Williams says she is "heartbroken" after her latest attempt for a record-equalling 24th Grand Slam was cruelly ended by injury.
Williams started against Aliaksandra Sasnovich with heavy strapping on her thigh and slipped in the fifth game.
The 39-year-old went down again in the seventh game and was overcome by emotion before having to retire.
Centre Court gave a standing ovation as she left, with Williams later saying: "The court meant the world to me."
Williams, seeded sixth, seemed to do the damage when she rocked backwards on the baseline before unleashing a forehand back to her opponent.
After going off court for treatment, the seven-time SW19 champion returned with a heavy limp and tried to continue before it soon became apparent she would be unable to.
Tears filled her eyes as Williams thanked the crowd, who had been trying to encourage her, for their support.
At 15-15 on her service game at 3-3, Williams buckled as she prepared to receive a return and spent a few moments kneeled on the court.
The umpire came down off her chair as Williams slowly managed to climb to her feet.
Ex-President Jacob Zuma sentenced by South Africa's top court
Jacob Zuma stepped down from the presidency in February 2018
South Africa's former President Jacob Zuma has been sentenced to 15 months in jail by the country's highest court.
He has been given five days to hand himself in to police. Failing that, the police minister must order his arrest.
The sentence comes after the Constitutional Court found him guilty of contempt for defying its order to appear at an inquiry into corruption while he was president.
Mr Zuma's time in power, which ended in 2018, was dogged by graft allegations.
Businessmen were accused of conspiring with politicians to influence the decision-making process.
The former president testified only once at the inquiry into what has become known as "state capture" but then refused to appear subsequently.
The inquiry - headed by Justice Raymond Zondo - asked the Constitutional Court to intervene.
Acting Chief Justice Sisi Khampepe was damning in her ruling. 
Mr Zuma refused to come to the court to explain his actions, she said, and he "elected instead to make provocative, unmeritorious and vituperative statements that constituted a calculated effort to impugn the integrity of the judiciary.
"I am left with no option but to commit Mr Zuma to imprisonment, with the hope that doing so sends an unequivocal message... the rule of law and the administration of justice prevails."
The former president was not in court to hear the majority ruling and has repeatedly declared that he was the victim of a giant political conspiracy.
In a separate legal matter, Mr Zuma pleaded not guilty last month in his corruption trial involving a $5bn (£3bn) arms deal from the 1990s.
Analysis box by Andrew Harding, Africa correspondent
This was a scathing, and hugely significant judgement against Jacob Zuma.
The Constitutional Court did not simply find him in contempt, but spelled out the many ways in which the former president had lied, sought to mislead the public, and ultimately tried to "destroy the rule of law".
The judges were clearly seeking to pre-empt the inevitable push back from Mr Zuma's supporters.
They say that he is the victim of a vast political conspiracy, and wonder why a former anti-apartheid hero who spent a decade on Robben Island should be imprisoned, while key figures from South Africa's old racist white minority government remain free.
The ruling will also have an impact within the governing ANC, and will strengthen the hand of President Cyril Ramaphosa while weakening those - often linked to Mr Zuma - who have also been implicated in the vast "state capture" corruption that Mr Ramaphosa has repeatedly vowed to expose and confront.
